Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone 









CHAPTER TEN 

HALLOWEEN 

Malfoy couldn't believe his eyes when he saw that Harry and Ron were 
still at Hogwarts the next day, looking tired but perfectly cheerful. 
Indeed, by the next morning Harry and Ron thought that meeting the 
three-headed dog had been an excellent adventure, and they were quite 
keen to have another one. In the meantime, Harry filled Ron in about the 
package that seemed to have been moved from Gringotts to Hogwarts, and 
they spent a lot of time wondering what could possibly need such heavy 
protection. "It's either really valuable or really dangerous," said Ron. 
"Or both," said Harry. 

But as all they knew for sure about the mysterious object was that it 
was about two inches long, they didn't have much chance of guessing what 
it was without further clues. 

Neither Neville nor Hermione showed the slightest interest in what lay 
underneath the dog and the trapdoor. All Neville cared about was never 
going near the dog again. 

Hermione was now refusing to speak to Harry and Ron, but she was such a 
bossy know-it-all that they saw this as an added bonus. All they really 
wanted now was a way of getting back at Malfoy, and to their great 
delight, just such a thing arrived in the mail about a week later. 

As the owls flooded into the Great Hall as usual, everyone's attention 
was caught at once by a long, thin package carried by six large screech 
owls. Harry was just as interested as everyone else to see what was in 
this large parcel, and was amazed when the owls soared down and dropped 
it right in front of him, knocking his bacon to the floor. They had 
hardly fluttered out of the way when another owl dropped a letter on top 
of the parcel. 

130



Harry ripped open the letter first, which was lucky, because it said: 

DO NOT OPEN THE PARCEL AT THE TABLE. 

It contains your new Nimbus Two Thousand, but I don't want everybody 
knowing you've got a broomstick or they'll all want one. Oliver Wood 
will meet you tonight on the Quidditch field at seven o'clock for your 
first training session. 

Professor McGonagall 

Harry had difficulty hiding his glee as he handed the note to Ron to 
read. 

"A Nimbus Two Thousand!" Ron moaned enviously. "I've never even touched 
one." 

They left the hall quickly, wanting to unwrap the broomstick in private 
before their first class, but halfway across the entrance hall they 
found the way upstairs barred by Crabbe and Goyle. Malfoy seized the 
package from Harry and felt it. 

"That's a broomstick," he said, throwing it back to Harry with a mixture 
of jealousy and spite on his face. "You'll be in for it this time, 
Potter, first years aren't allowed them." 

Ron couldn't resist it. 

"It's not any old broomstick," he said, "it's a Nimbus Two Thousand. 
What did you say you've got at home, Malfoy, a Comet Two Sixty?" Ron 
grinned at Harry. "Comets look flashy, but they're not in the same 
league as the Nimbus." 

"What would you know about it, Weasley, you couldn't afford half the 
handle," Malfoy snapped back. "I suppose you and your brothers have to 
save up twig by twig." 

Before Ron could answer, Professor Flitwick appeared at Malfoy's elbow. 

"Not arguing, I hope, boys?" he squeaked. 

131



"Potter's been sent a broomstick, Professor," said Malfoy quickly. 

"Yes, yes, that's right," said Professor Flitwick, beaming at Harry. 
"Professor McGonagall told me all about the special circumstances, 
Potter. And what model is it?" 

"A Nimbus Two Thousand, sit," said Harry, fighting not to laugh at the 
look of horror on Malfoy's face. "And it's really thanks to Malfoy here 
that I've got it," he added. 

Harry and Ron headed upstairs, smothering their laughter at Malfoy's 
obvious rage and confusion. "Well, it's true," Harry chortled as they 
reached the top of the marble staircase, "If he hadn't stolen Neville's 
Remembrall I wouln't be on the team...." 

"So I suppose you think that's a reward for breaking rules?" came an 
angry voice from just behind them. Hermione was stomping up the stairs, 
looking disapprovingly at the package in Harry's hand. 

"I thought you weren't speaking to us?" said Harry. 

"Yes, don't stop now," said Ron, "it's doing us so much good." 

Hermione marched away with her nose in the air. 

Harry had a lot of trouble keeping his mind on his lessons that day. It 
kept wandering up to the dormitory where his new broomstick was lying 
under his bed, or straying off to the Quidditch field where he'd be 
learning to play that night. He bolted his dinner that evening without 
noticing what he was eating, and then rushed upstairs with Ron to unwrap 
the Nimbus Two Thousand at last. 

"Wow," Ron sighed, as the broomstick rolled onto Harry's bedspread. 

Even Harry, who knew nothing about the different brooms, thought it 
looked wonderful. Sleek and shiny, with a mahogany handle, it had a long 
tail of neat, straight twigs and Nimbus Two Thousand written in gold 
near the top. 

As seven o'clock drew nearer, Harry left the castle and set off in the 
dusk toward the Quidditch field. Held never been inside the stadium 
before. Hundreds of seats were raised in stands around the field so that 
the spectators were high enough to see what was going on. At either end 

132



of the field were three golden poles with hoops on the end. They
reminded Harry of the little plastic sticks Muggle


children blew bubbles through, except that they were fifty feet high.


Too eager to fly again to wait for Wood, Harry mounted his broomstick
and kicked off from the ground. What a feeling -- he swooped in and out
of the goal posts and then sped up and down the field. The Nimbus Two
Thousand turned wherever he wanted at his lightest touch.


"Hey, Potter, come down!'


Oliver Wood had arrived. fie was carrying a large wooden crate under his
arm. Harry landed next to him.


"Very nice," said Wood, his eyes glinting. "I see what McGonagall
meant... you really are a natural. I'm just going to teach you the rules
this evening, then you'll be joining team practice three times a week."


He opened the crate. Inside were four different-sized balls.


"Right," said Wood. "Now, Quidditch is easy enough to understand, even
if it's not too easy to play. There are seven players on each side.
Three of them are called Chasers."


"Three Chasers," Harry repeated, as Wood took out a bright red ball
about the size of a soccer ball.


"This ball's called the Quaffle," said Wood. "The Chasers throw the
Quaffle to each other and try and get it through one of the hoops to
score a goal. Ten points every time the Quaffle goes through one of the
hoops. Follow me?"


"The Chasers throw the Quaffle and put it through the hoops to score,"
Harry recited. "So -- that's sort of like basketball on broomsticks with
six hoops, isn't it?"


"What's basketball?" said Wood curiously. "Never mind," said Harry
quickly.


"Now, there's another player on each side who's called the Keeper -I'm
Keeper for Gryffindor. I have to fly around our hoops and stop the other
team from scoring."


133



"Three Chasers, one Keeper," said Harry, who was determined to remember 
it all. "And they play with the Quaffle. Okay, got that. So what are 
they for?" He pointed at the three balls left inside the box. 

"I'll show you now," said Wood. "Take this." 

He handed Harry a small club, a bit like a short baseball bat. 

"I'm going to show you what the Bludgers do," Wood said. "These two are 
the Bludgers." 

He showed Harry two identical balls, jet black and slightly smaller than 
the red Quaffle. Harry noticed that they seemed to be straining to 
escape the straps holding them inside the box. 

"Stand back," Wood warned Harry. He bent down and freed one of the 
Bludgers. 

At once, the black ball rose high in the air and then pelted straight at 
Harry's face. Harry swung at it with the bat to stop it from breaking 
his nose, and sent it zigzagging away into the air -- it zoomed around 
their heads and then shot at Wood, who dived on top of it and managed to 
pin it to the ground. 

"See?" Wood panted, forcing the struggling Bludger back into the crate 
and strapping it down safely. "The Bludgers rocket around, trying to 
knock players off their brooms. That's why you have two Beaters on each 
team -- the Weasley twins are ours -- it's their job to protect their 
side from the Bludgers and try and knock them toward the other team. So 
-- think you've got all that?" 

"Three Chasers try and score with the Quaffle; the Keeper guards the 
goal posts; the Beaters keep the Bludgers away from their team," Harry 
reeled off. 

"Very good," said Wood. 

"Er -- have the Bludgers ever killed anyone?" Harry asked, hoping he 
sounded offhand. 

"Never at Hogwarts. We've had a couple of broken jaws but nothing worse 
than that. Now, the last member of the team is the 

134



Seeker. That's you. And you don't have to worry about the Quaffle or the 
Bludgers unless they crack my head open." 

"Don't worry, the Weasleys are more than a match for the Bludgers -- I 
mean, they're like a pair of human Bludgers themselves." 

Wood reached into the crate and took out the fourth and last ball. 
Compared with the Quaffle and the Bludgers, it was tiny, about the size 
of a large walnut. It was bright gold and had little fluttering silver 
wings. 

"This," said Wood, "is the Golden Snitch, and it's the most important 
ball of the lot. It's very hard to catch because it's so fast and 
difficult to see. It's the Seeker's job to catch it. You've got to weave 
in and out of the Chasers, Beaters, Bludgers, and Quaffle to get it 
before the other team's Seeker, because whichever Seeker catches the 
Snitch wins his team an extra hundred and fifty points, so they 

nearly always win. That's why Seekers get fouled so much. A game of 
Quidditch only ends when the Snitch is caught, so it can go on for ages 
-- I think the record is three months, they had to keep bringing on 
substitutes so the players could get some sleep. "Well, that's it -- any 
questions?" 

Harry shook his head. He understood what he had to do all right, it was 
doing it that was going to be the problem. 

"We won't practice with the Snitch yet," said Wood, carefully shutting 
it back inside the crate, "it's too dark, we might lose it. Let's try 
you out with a few of these." 

He pulled a bag of ordinary golf balls out of his pocket and a few 
minutes later, he and Harry were up in the air, Wood throwing the golf 
balls as hard as he could in every direction for Harry to catch. 

Harry didn't miss a single one, and Wood was delighted. After half an 
hour, night had really fallen and they couldn't carry on. 

"That Quidditch cup'll have our name on it this year," said Wood happily 
as they trudged back up to the castle. "I wouldn't be surprised if you 
turn out better than Charlie Weasley, and he could have played for 
England if he hadn't gone off chasing dragons." 

135



Perhaps it was because he was now so busy, what with Quidditch practice
three evenings a week on top of all his homework, but Harry could hardly
believe it when he realized that he'd already been at Hogwarts two
months. The castle felt more like home than Privet Drive ever had. His
lessons, too, were becoming more and more interesting now that they had
mastered the basics.


On Halloween morning they woke to the delicious smell of baking pumpkin
wafting through the corridors. Even better, Professor Flitwick announced
in Charms that he thought they were ready to start making objects fly,
something they had all been dying to try since they'd seen him make
Neville's toad zoom around the classroom. Professor Flitwick put the
class into pairs to practice. Harry's partner was Seamus Finnigan (which
was a relief, because Neville had been trying to catch his eye). Ron,
however, was to be working with Hermione Granger. It was hard to tell
whether Ron or Hermione was angrier about this. She hadn't spoken to
either of them since the day Harry's broomstick had arrived.


"Now, don't forget that nice wrist movement we've been practicing!"
squeaked Professor Flitwick, perched on top of his pile of books as
usual. "Swish and flick, remember, swish and flick. And saying the magic
words properly is very important, too -- never forget Wizard Baruffio,
who said 's' instead of 'f' and found himself on the floor with a
buffalo on his chest."


It was very difficult. Harry and Seamus swished and flicked, but the
feather they were supposed to be sending skyward just lay on the
desktop. Seamus got so impatient that he prodded it with his wand and
set fire to it -- Harry had to put it out with his hat.


Ron, at the next table, wasn't having much more luck.


"Wingardium Leviosa!" he shouted, waving his long arms like a windmill.


"You're saying it wrong," Harry heard Hermione snap. "It's Wing-gar-dium
Levi-o-sa, make the 'gar' nice and long."


"You do it, then, if you're so clever," Ron snarled.


Hermione rolled up the sleeves of her gown, flicked her wand, and said,
"Wingardium Leviosa!"


136



Their feather rose off the desk and hovered about four feet above their 
heads. 

"Oh, well done!" cried Professor Flitwick, clapping. "Everyone see here, 
Miss Granger's done it!" 

Ron was in a very bad mood by the end of the class. "It's no wonder no 
one can stand her," he said to Harry as they pushed their way into the 
crowded corridor, "she's a nightmare, honestly. " 

Someone knocked into Harry as they hurried past him. It was Hermione. 
Harry caught a glimpse of her face -- and was startled to see that she 
was in tears. 

"I think she heard you." 

"So?" said Ron, but he looked a bit uncomfortable. "She must've noticed 
she's got no friends." 

Hermione didn't turn up for the next class and wasn't seen all 
afternoon. On their way down to the Great Hall for the Halloween feast, 
Harry and Ron overheard Parvati Patil telling her friend Lavender that 
Hermione was crying in the girls' bathroom and wanted to be left alone. 
Ron looked still more awkward at this, but a moment later they had 
entered the Great Hall, where the Halloween decorations put Hermione out 
of their minds. 

A thousand live bats fluttered from the walls and ceiling while a 
thousand more swooped over the tables in low black clouds, making the 
candles in the pumpkins stutter. The feast appeared suddenly on the 
golden plates, as it had at the start-of-term banquet. 

Harry was just helping himself to a baked potato when Professor Quirrell 
came sprinting into the hall, his turban askew and terror on his face. 
Everyone stared as he reached Professor Dumbledore's chair, slumped 
against the table, and gasped, "Troll -- in the dungeons -- thought you 
ought to know." 

He then sank to the floor in a dead faint. 

There was an uproar. It took several purple firecrackers exploding from 
the end of Professor Dumbledore's wand to bring silence. 

137



"Prefects," he rumbled, "lead your Houses back to the dormitories
immediately!"


Percy was in his element.
"Follow me! Stick together, first years! No need to fear the troll if
you follow my orders! Stay close behind me, now. Make way, first years
coming through! Excuse me, I'm a prefect!"


"How could a troll get in?" Harry asked as they climbed the stairs.


"Don't ask me, they're supposed to be really stupid," said Ron. "Maybe
Peeves let it in for a Halloween joke."
They passed different groups of people hurrying in different directions.


As they jostled their way through a crowd of confused Hufflepuffs, Harry
suddenly grabbed Ron's arm.
"I've just thought -- Hermione."
"What about her?"
"She doesn't know about the troll."
Ron bit his lip.


"Oh, all right," he snapped. "But Percy'd better not see us."
Ducking down, they joined the Hufflepuffs going the other way, slipped
down a deserted side corridor, and hurried off toward the girls'
bathroom. They had just turned the corner when they heard quick
footsteps behind them.


"Percy!" hissed Ron, pulling Harry behind a large stone griffin.


Peering around it, however, they saw not Percy but Snape. He crossed the
corridor and disappeared from view.
"What's he doing?" Harry whispered. "Why isn't he down in the dungeons


with the rest of the teachers?" 
"Search me." 

138



Quietly as possible, they crept along the next corridor after Snape's
fading footsteps.


"He's heading for the third floor," Harry said, but Ron held up his
hand.


"Can you smell something?"


Harry sniffed and a foul stench reached his nostrils, a mixture of old
socks and the kind of public toilet no one seems to clean.


And then they heard it -- a low grunting, and the shuffling footfalls of
gigantic feet. Ron pointed -- at the end of a passage to the left,
something huge was moving toward them. They shrank into the shadows and
watched as it emerged into a patch of moonlight.


It was a horrible sight. Twelve feet tall, its skin was a dull, granite
gray, its great lumpy body like a boulder with its small bald head
perched on top like a coconut. It had short legs thick as tree trunks
with flat, horny feet. The smell coming from it was incredible. It was
holding a huge wooden club, which dragged along the floor because its
arms were so long.


The troll stopped next to a doorway and peered inside. It waggled its
long ears, making up its tiny mind, then slouched slowly into the room.


"The keys in the lock," Harry muttered. "We could lock it in."


"Good idea," said Ron nervously.


They edged toward the open door, mouths dry, praying the troll wasn't
about to come out of it. With one great leap, Harry managed to grab the
key, slam the door, and lock it.


'Yes!"


Flushed with their victory, they started to run back up the passage, but
as they reached the corner they heard something that made their hearts
stop -- a high, petrified scream -- and it was coming from the chamber
they'd just chained up.


"Oh, no," said Ron, pale as the Bloody Baron.


139



"It's the girls' bathroom!" Harry gasped. 

"Hermione!" they said together. 

It was the last thing they wanted to do, but what choice did they have? 
Wheeling around, they sprinted back to the door and turned the key, 
fumbling in their panic. Harry pulled the door open and they ran inside. 

Hermione Granger was shrinking against the wall opposite, looking as if 
she was about to faint. The troll was advancing on her, knocking the 
sinks off the walls as it went. 

"Confuse it!" Harry said desperately to Ron, and, seizing a tap, he 
threw it as hard as he could against the wall. 

The troll stopped a few feet from Hermione. It lumbered around, blinking 
stupidly, to see what had made the noise. Its mean little eyes saw 
Harry. It hesitated, then made for him instead, lifting its club as it 
went. 

"Oy, pea-brain!" yelled Ron from the other side of the chamber, and he 
threw a metal pipe at it. The troll didn't even seem to notice the pipe 
hitting its shoulder, but it heard the yell and paused again, turning 
its ugly snout toward Ron instead, giving Harry time to run around it. 

"Come on, run, run!" Harry yelled at Hermione, trying to pull her toward 
the door, but she couldn't move, she was still flat against the wall, 
her mouth open with terror. 

The shouting and the echoes seemed to be driving the troll berserk. It 
roared again and started toward Ron, who was nearest and had no way to 
escape. 

Harry then did something that was both very brave and very stupid: He 
took a great running jump and managed to fasten his arms around the 
troll's neck from behind. The troll couldn't feel Harry hanging there, 
but even a troll will notice if you stick a long bit of wood up its 
nose, and Harry's wand had still been in his hand when he'd jumped -- it 
had gone straight up one of the troll's nostrils. 

Howling with pain, the troll twisted and flailed its club, with Harry 
clinging on for dear life; any second, the troll was going to rip him 

140



off or catch him a terrible blow with the club. 

Hermione had sunk to the floor in fright; Ron pulled out his own wand -
not knowing what he was going to do he heard himself cry the first spell 
that came into his head: "Wingardium Leviosa!" 

The club flew suddenly out of the troll's hand, rose high, high up into 
the air, turned slowly over -- and dropped, with a sickening crack, onto 
its owner's head. The troll swayed on the spot and then fell flat on its 
face, with a thud that made the whole room tremble. 

Harry got to his feet. He was shaking and out of breath. Ron was 
standing there with his wand still raised, staring at what he had done. 

It was Hermione who spoke first. 

"Is it -- dead?" 

I don't think so," said Harry, I think it's just been knocked out." 

He bent down and pulled his wand out of the troll's nose. It was covered 
in what looked like lumpy gray glue. 

"Urgh -- troll boogers." 

He wiped it on the troll's trousers. 

A sudden slamming and loud footsteps made the three of them look up. 
They hadn't realized what a racket they had been making, but of course, 
someone downstairs must have heard the crashes and the troll's roars. A 
moment later, Professor McGonagall had come bursting into the room, 
closely followed by Snape, with Quirrell bringing up the rear. Quirrell 
took one look at the troll, let out a faint whimper, and sat quickly 
down on a toilet, clutching his heart. 

Snape bent over the troll. Professor McGonagall was looking at Ron and 
Harry. Harry had never seen her look so angry. Her lips were white. 
Hopes of winning fifty points for Gryffindor faded quickly from Harry's 
mind. 

"What on earth were you thinking of?" said Professor McGonagall, with 
cold fury in her voice. Harry looked at Ron, who was still standing with 
his wand in the air. "You're lucky you weren't killed. Why aren't you in 

141



your dormitory?" 

Snape gave Harry a swift, piercing look. Harry looked at the floor. He 
wished Ron would put his wand down. 

Then a small voice came out of the shadows. 

"Please, Professor McGonagall -- they were looking for me." 

"Miss Granger!" 

Hermione had managed to get to her feet at last. 

I went looking for the troll because I -- I thought I could deal with it 
on my own -- you know, because I've read all about them." 

Ron dropped his wand. Hermione Granger, telling a downright lie to a 
teacher? "If they hadn't found me, I'd be dead now. Harry stuck his wand 
up its nose and Ron knocked it out with its own club. They didn't have 
time to come and fetch anyone. It was about to finish me off when they 
arrived." 

Harry and Ron tried to look as though this story wasn't new to them. 

"Well -- in that case..." said Professor McGonagall, staring at the 
three of them, "Miss Granger, you foolish girl, how could you think of 
tackling a mountain troll on your own?" 

Hermione hung her head. Harry was speechless. Hermione was the last 
person to do anything against the rules, and here she was, pretending 
she had, to get them out of trouble. It was as if Snape had started 
handing out sweets. 

"Miss Granger, five points will be taken from Gryffindor for this," said 
Professor McGonagall. "I'm very disappointed in you. If you're not hurt 
at all, you'd better get off to Gryffindor tower. Students are finishing 
the feast in their houses." 

Hermione left. 

Professor McGonagall turned to Harry and Ron. 

"Well, I still say you were lucky, but not many first years could have 

142



taken on a full-grown mountain troll. You each win Gryffindor five 
points. Professor Dumbledore will be informed of this. You may go." 

They hurried out of the chamber and didn't speak at all until they had 
climbed two floors up. It was a relief to be away from the smell of the 
troll, quite apart from anything else. 

"We should have gotten more than ten points," Ron grumbled. 

"Five, you mean, once she's taken off Hermione's." 

"Good of her to get us out of trouble like that," Ron admitted. "Mind 
you, we did save her." 

"She might not have needed saving if we hadn't locked the thing in with 
her," Harry reminded him. 

They had reached the portrait of the Fat Lady. 

"Pig snout," they said and entered. 

The common room was packed and noisy. Everyone was eating the food that 
had been sent up. Hermione, however, stood alone by the door, waiting 
for them. There was a very embarrassed pause. Then, none of them looking 
at each other, they all said "Thanks," and hurried off to get plates. 

But from that moment on, Hermione Granger became their friend. There are 
some things you can't share without ending up liking each other, and 
knocking out a twelve-foot mountain troll is one of them. 

CHAPTER ELEVEN 

QUIDDITCH 

As they entered November, the weather turned very cold. The mountains 
around the school became icy gray and the lake like chilled steel. Every 
morning the ground was covered in frost. Hagrid could be seen from the 
upstairs windows defrosting broomsticks on the Quidditch field, bundled 
up in a long moleskin overcoat, rabbit fur gloves, and enormous 
beaverskin boots. 

The Quidditch season had begun. On Saturday, Harry would be playing in 

143



his first match after weeks of training: Gryffindor versus Slytherin. If 
Gryffindor won, they would move up into second place in the house 
championship. 

Hardly anyone had seen Harry play because Wood had decided that, as 
their secret weapon, Harry should be kept, well, secret. But the news 
that he was playing Seeker had leaked out somehow, and Harry didn't know 
which was worse -- people telling him he'd be brilliant or people 
telling him they'd be running around underneath him holding a mattress. 

It was really lucky that Harry now had Hermlone as a friend. He didn't 
know how he'd have gotten through all his homework without her, what 
with all the last-minute Quidditch practice Wood was making them do. She 
had also tent him Quidditch Through the Ages, which turned out to be a 
very interesting read. 

Harry learned that there were seven hundred ways of committing a 
Quidditch foul and that all of them had happened during a World Cup 
match in 1473; that Seekers were usually the smallest and fastest 
players, and that most serious Quidditch accidents seemed to happen to 
them; that although people rarely died playing Quidditch, referees had 
been known to vanish and turn up months later in the Sahara Desert. 

Hermione had become a bit more relaxed about breaking rules since Harry 
and Ron had saved her from the mountain troll, and she was much nicer 
for it. The day before Harry's first Quidditch match the three of them 
were out in the freezing courtyard during break, and she had conjured 
them up a bright blue fire that could be carried around in a jam jar. 
They were standing with their backs to it, getting warm, when Snape 
crossed the yard. Harry noticed at once that Snape was limping. Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione moved closer together to block the fire from view; 
they were sure it wouldn't be allowed. Unfortunately, something about 
their guilty faces caught Snape's eye. He limped over. He hadn't seen 
the fire, but he seemed to be looking for a reason to tell them off 
anyway. 

"What's that you've got there, Potter?" 

It was Quidditch Through the Ages. Harry showed him. 

"Library books are not to be taken outside the school," said Snape. 
"Give it to me. Five points from Gryffindor." 

144



"He's just made that rule up," Harry muttered angrily as Snape limped 
away. "Wonder what's wrong with his leg?" 

"Dunno, but I hope it's really hurting him," said Ron bitterly. 

The Gryffindor common room was very noisy that evening. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione sat together next to a window. Hermione was checking Harry and 
Ron's Charms homework for them. She would never let them copy ("How will 
you learn?"), but by asking her to read it through, they got the right 
answers anyway. 

Harry felt restless. He wanted Quidditch Through the Ages back, to take 
his mind off his nerves about tomorrow. Why should he be afraid of 
Snape? Getting up, he told Ron and Hermione he was going to ask Snape if 
he could have it. 

"Better you than me," they said together, but Harry had an idea that 
Snape wouldn't refuse if there were other teachers listening. 

He made his way down to the staffroom and knocked. There was no answer. 
He knocked again. Nothing. 

Perhaps Snape had left the book in there? It was worth a try. He pushed 
the door ajar and peered inside -- and a horrible scene met his eyes. 

Snape and Filch were inside, alone. Snape was holding his robes above 
his knees. One of his legs was bloody and mangled. Filch was handing 
Snape bandages. 

"Blasted thing*," Snape was saying. "How are you supposed to keep your 
eyes on all three heads at once?" 

Harry tried to shut the door quietly, but -

"POTTER!" 

Snape's face was twisted with fury as he dropped his robes quickly to 
hide his leg. Harry gulped. 

"I just wondered if I could have my book back." 

"GET OUT! OUT!" 

145



Harry left, before Snape could take any more points from Gryffindor. He 
sprinted back upstairs. 

"Did you get it?" Ron asked as Harry joined them. "What's the matter?" 

In a low whisper, Harry told them what he'd seen. 

"You know what this means?" he finished breathlessly. "He tried to get 
past that three-headed dog at Halloween! That's where he was going when 
we saw him -- he's after whatever it's guarding! And Id bet my 
broomstick he let that troll in, to make a diversion!" 

Hermione's eyes were wide. 

"No -- he wouldn't, she said. "I know he's not very nice, but he 
wouldn't try and steal something Dumbledore was keeping safe." 

"Honestly, Hermione, you think all teachers are saints or something," 
snapped Ron. "I'm with Harry. I wouldn't put anything past Snape. But 
what's he after? What's that dog guarding?" 

Harry went to bed with his head buzzing with the same question. Neville 
was snoring loudly, but Harry couldn't sleep. He tried to empty his mind 
-- he needed to sleep, he had to, he had his first Quidditch match in a 
few hours -- but the expression on Snape's face when Harry had seen his 
leg wasn't easy to forget. 

The next morning dawned very bright and cold. The Great Hall was full of 
the delicious smell of fried sausages and the cheer ful chatter of 
everyone looking forward to a good Quidditch match. 

"You've got to eat some breakfast." 

"I don't want anything." 

"Just a bit of toast," wheedled Hermione. 

"I'm not hungry." 

Harry felt terrible. In an hour's time he'd be walking onto the field. 

"Harry, you need your strength," said Seamus Finnigan. "Seekers are 
always the ones who get clobbered by the other team." 

146



"Thanks, Seamus," said Harry, watching Seamus pile ketchup on his 

sausages. 
By eleven o'clock the whole school seemed to be out in the stands around 
the Quidditch pitch. Many students had binoculars. The seats might be 
raised high in the air, but it was still difficult to see what was going 
on sometimes. 

Ron and Hermione joined Neville, Seamus, and Dean the West Ham fan up in 
the top row. As a surprise for Harry, they had painted a large banner on 
one of the sheets Scabbers had ruined. It said Potter for President, and 
Dean, who was good at drawing, had done a large Gryffindor lion 
underneath. Then Hermione had performed a tricky little charm so that 
the paint flashed different colors. 

Meanwhile, in the locker room, Harry and the rest of the team were 
changing into their scarlet Quidditch robes (Slytherin would be playing 
in green). 

Wood cleared his throat for silence.
"Okay, men," he said.
"And women," said Chaser Angelina Johnson.
"And women," Wood agreed. "This is it."
"The big one," said Fred Weasley.
"The one we've all been waiting for," said George.
"We know Oliver's speech by heart," Fred told Harry, "we were on the


team last year."


"Shut up, you two," said Wood. "This is the best team Gryffindor's had
in years. We're going to win. I know it."
He glared at them all as if to say, "Or else."
"Right. It's time. Good luck, all of you."
Harry followed Fred and George out of the locker room and, hoping his


147



knees weren't going to give way, walked onto the field to loud cheers. 

Madam Hooch was refereeing. She stood in the middle of the field waiting 
for the two teams, her broom in her hand. 

"Now, I want a nice fair game, all of you," she said, once they were all 
gathered around her. Harry noticed that she seemed to be speaking 
particularly to the Slytherin Captain, Marcus Flint, a sixth year. Harry 
thought Flint looked as if he had some troll blood in him. Out of the 
corner of his eye he saw the fluttering banner high above, flashing 
Potter for President over the crowd. His heart skipped. He felt braver. 

"Mount your brooms, please." 

Harry clambered onto his Nimbus Two Thousand. 

Madam Hooch gave a loud blast on her silver whistle. 

Fifteen brooms rose up, high, high into the air. They were off. "And the 
Quaffle is taken immediately by Angelina Johnson of Gryffindor -- what 
an excellent Chaser that girl is, and rather attractive, too --" 

"JORDAN!" 

"Sorry, Professor." 

The Weasley twins' friend, Lee Jordan, was doing the commentary for the 
match, closely watched by Professor McGonagall. 

"And she's really belting along up there, a neat pass to Alicia Spinnet, 
a good find of Oliver Wood's, last year only a reserve -- back to 
Johnson and -- no, the Slytherins have taken the Quaffle, Slytherin 
Captain Marcus Flint gains the Quaffle and off he goes -- Flint flying 
like an eagle up there -- he's going to sc- no, stopped by an excellent 
move by Gryffindor Keeper Wood and the Gryffindors take the Quaffle -
that's Chaser Katie Bell of Gryffindor there, nice dive around Flint, 
off up the field and -- OUCH -- that must have hurt, hit in the back of 
the head by a Bludger -- Quaffle taken by the Slytherins -- that's 
Adrian Pucey speeding off toward the goal posts, but he's blocked by a 
second Bludger -- sent his way by Fred or George Weasley, can't tell 
which -- nice play by the Gryffindor Beater, anyway, and Johnson back in 
possession of the Quaffle, a clear field ahead and off she goes -- she's 
really flying -- dodges a speeding Bludger -- the goal posts are ahead 

148



-- come on, now, Angelina -- Keeper Bletchley dives -- misses -
GRYFFINDORS SCORE!" 

Gryffindor cheers filled the cold air, with howls and moans from the 
Slytherins. 

"Budge up there, move along." 

"Hagrid!" 

Ron and Hermione squeezed together to give Hagrid enough space to join 
them. 

"Bin watchin' from me hut," said Hagrid, patting a large pair of 
binoculars around his neck, "But it isn't the same as bein' in the 
crowd. No sign of the Snitch yet, eh?" 

"Nope," said Ron. "Harry hasn't had much to do yet." 

"Kept outta trouble, though, that's somethin'," said Hagrid, raising his 
binoculars and peering skyward at the speck that was Harry. 

Way up above them, Harry was gliding over the game, squinting about for 
some sign of the Snitch. This was part of his and Wood's game plan. 

"Keep out of the way until you catch sight of the Snitch," Wood had 
said. "We don't want you attacked before you have to be." 

When Angelina had scored, Harry had done a couple of loop-the-loops to 
let off his feelings. Now he was back to staring around for the Snitch. 
Once he caught sight of a flash of gold, but it was just a reflection 
from one of the Weasleys' wristwatches, and once a Bludger decided to 
come pelting his way, more like a cannonball than anything, but Harry 
dodged it and Fred Weasley came chasing after it. 

"All right there, Harry?" he had time to yell, as he beat the Bludger 
furiously toward Marcus Flint. 

"Slytherin in possession," Lee Jordan was saying, "Chaser Pucey ducks 
two Bludgers, two Weasleys, and Chaser Bell, and speeds toward the -
wait a moment -- was that the Snitch?" 

A murmur ran through the crowd as Adrian Pucey dropped the Quaffle, too 

149



busy looking over his shoulder at the flash of gold that had passed his 

left ear. 
Harry saw it. In a great rush of excitement he dived downward after the 
streak of gold. Slytherin Seeker Terence Higgs had seen it, too. Neck 
and neck they hurtled toward the Snitch -all the Chasers seemed to have 
forgotten what they were supposed to be doing as they hung in midair to 
watch. 

Harry was faster than Higgs -- he could see the little round ball, wings 

fluttering, darting up ahead - - he put on an extra spurt of speed -
WHAM! A roar of rage echoed from the Gryffindors below -- Marcus Flint 
had blocked Harry on purpose, and Harry's broom spun off course, Harry 
holding on for dear life. 

"Foul!" screamed the Gryffindors.
Madam Hooch spoke angrily to Flint and then ordered a free shot at the


goal posts for Gryffindor. But in all the confusion, of course, the 
Golden Snitch had disappeared from sight again. 
Down in the stands, Dean Thomas was yelling, "Send him off, ref! Red 

card!"
"What are you talking about, Dean?" said Ron.
"Red card!" said Dean furiously. "In soccer you get shown the red card


and you're out of the game!"
"But this isn't soccer, Dean," Ron reminded him.
Hagrid, however, was on Dean's side.
"They oughta change the rules. Flint coulda knocked Harry outta the


air."
Lee Jordan was finding it difficult not to take sides.
"So -- after that obvious and disgusting bit of cheating
"Jordan!" growled Professor McGonagall.


150



"I mean, after that open and revolting foul 

'Jordan, I'm warning you --" 

"All right, all right. Flint nearly kills the Gryffindor Seeker, which 
could happen to anyone, I'm sure, so a penalty to Gryffindor, taken by 
Spinner, who puts it away, no trouble, and we continue play, Gryffindor 
still in possession." 

It was as Harry dodged another Bludger, which went spinning dangerously 
past his head, that it happened. His broom gave a sudden, frightening 
lurch. For a split second, he thought he was going to fall. He gripped 
the broom tightly with both his hands and knees. He'd never felt 
anything like that. 

It happened again. It was as though the broom was trying to buck him 
off. But Nimbus Two Thousands did not suddenly decide to buck their 
riders off. Harry tried to turn back toward the Gryffindor goal- posts 
-- he had half a mind to ask Wood to call time-out -- and then he 
realized that his broom was completely out of his control. He couldn't 
turn it. He couldn't direct it at all. It was zigzagging through the 
air, and every now and then making violent swishing movements that 
almost unseated him. 

Lee was still commentating. 

"Slytherin in possession -- Flint with the Quaffle -- passes Spinnet -
passes Bell -- hit hard in the face by a Bludger, hope it broke his nose 
-- only joking, Professor -- Slytherins score -- A no... 

The Slytherins were cheering. No one seemed to have noticed that Harry's 
broom was behaving strangely. It was carrying- him slowly higher, away 
from the game, jerking and twitching as it went. 

"Dunno what Harry thinks he's doing," Hagrid mumbled. He stared through 
his binoculars. "If I didn' know better, I'd say he'd lost control of 
his broom... but he can't have...." 

Suddenly, people were pointing up at Harry all over the stands. His 
broom had started to roll over and over, with him only just managing to 
hold on. Then the whole crowd gasped. Harry's broom had given a wild 
jerk and Harry swung off it. He was now dangling from it, holding on 
with only one hand. 

151



"Did something happen to it when Flint blocked him?" Seamus whispered. 

"Can't have," Hagrid said, his voice shaking. "Can't nothing interfere 
with a broomstick except powerful Dark magic -- no kid could do that to 
a Nimbus Two Thousand." 

At these words, Hermione seized Hagrid's binoculars, but instead of 
looking up at Harry, she started looking frantically at the crowd. 

"What are you doing?" moaned Ron, gray-faced. 

"I knew it," Hermione gasped, "Snape -- look." 

Ron grabbed the binoculars. Snape was in the middle of the stands 
opposite them. He had his eyes fixed on Harry and was muttering nonstop 
under his breath. 

"He's doing something -- jinxing the broom," said Hermione. 

"What should we do?" 

"Leave it to me." 

Before Ron could say another word, Hermione had disappeared. Ron turned 
the binoculars back on Harry. His broom was vibrating so hard, it was 
almost impossible for him to hang on much longer. The whole crowd was on 
its feet, watching, terrified, as the Weasleys flew up to try and pull 
Harry safely onto one of their brooms, but it was no good -- every time 
they got near him, the broom would jump higher still. They dropped lower 
and circled beneath him, obviously hoping to catch him if he fell. 
Marcus 

Flint seized the Quaffle and scored five times without anyone noticing. 

"Come on, Hermione," Ron muttered desperately. 

Hermione had fought her way across to the stand where Snape stood, and 
was now racing along the row behind him; she didn't even stop to say 
sorry as she knocked Professor Quirrell headfirst into the row in front. 
Reaching Snape, she crouched down, pulled out her wand, and whispered a 
few, well- chosen words. Bright blue flames shot from her wand onto the 
hem of Snape's robes. 

152



It took perhaps thirty seconds for Snape to realize that he was on fire. 
A sudden yelp told her she had done her job. Scooping the fire off him 
into a little jar in her pocket, she scrambled back along the row --
Snape would never know what had happened. 

It was enough. Up in the air, Harry was suddenly able to clamber back on 
to his broom. 

"Neville, you can look!" Ron said. Neville had been sobbing into 
Hagrid's jacket for the last five minutes. 

Harry was speeding toward the ground when the crowd saw him clap his 
hand to his mouth as though he was about to be sick -- he hit the field 
on all fours -- coughed -- and something gold fell into his hand. 

"I've got the Snitch!" he shouted, waving it above his head, and the 
game ended in complete confusion. 

"He didn't catch it, he nearly swallowed it," Flint was still howling 
twenty minutes later, but it made no difference -- Harry hadn't broken 
any rules and Lee Jordan was still happily shouting the results --
Gryffindor had won by one hundred and seventy points to sixty. Harry 
heard none of this, though. He was being made a cup of strong tea back 
in Hagrid's hut, with Ron and Hermione. 

"It was Snape," Ron was explaining, "Hermione and I saw him. He was 
cursing your broomstick, muttering, he wouldn't take his eyes off you." 

"Rubbish," said Hagrid, who hadn't heard a word of what had gone on next 
to him in the stands. "Why would Snape do somethin' like that?" 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another, wondering what to tell 
him. Harry decided on the truth. 

"I found out something about him," he told Hagrid. "He tried to get past 
that three-headed dog on Halloween. It bit him. We think he was trying 
to steal whatever it's guarding." 

Hagrid dropped the teapot. 

"How do you know about Fluffy?" he said. 

153



"Fluffy?"


"Yeah -- he's mine -- bought him off a Greek chappie I met in the pub
las' year -- I lent him to Dumbledore to guard the
"Yes?" said Harry eagerly.
"Now, don't ask me anymore," said Hagrid gruffly. "That's top secret,


that is."
"But Snape's trying to steal it."
"Rubbish," said Hagrid again. "Snape's a Hogwarts teacher, he'd do


nothin' of the sort."
"So why did he just try and kill Harry?" cried Hermione.
The afternoon's events certainly seemed to have changed her mind about


Snape.
I know a jinx when I see one, Hagrid, I've read all about them!
You've got to keep eye contact, and Snape wasn't blinking at all, I saw


him!"
"I'm tellin' yeh, yer wrong!" said Hagrid hotly. "I don' know why
Harry's broom acted like that, but Snape wouldn' try an' kill a student!
Now, listen to me, all three of yeh -- yer meddlin' in things that don'
concern yeh. It's dangerous. You forget that dog, an' you forget what


it's guardin', that's between Professor Dumbledore an' Nicolas Flamel
--"
"Aha!" said Harry, "so there's someone called Nicolas Flamel involved,


is there?"
Hagrid looked furious with himself.


CHAPTER TWELVE
THE MIRROR OF ERISED
Christmas was coming. One morning in mid-December, Hogwarts woke to find


154



itself covered in several feet of snow. The lake froze solid and the 
Weasley twins were punished for bewitching several snowballs so that 
they followed Quirrell around, bouncing off the back of his turban. The 
few owls that managed to battle their way through the stormy sky to 
deliver mail had to be nursed back to health by Hagrid before they could 
fly off again. 

No one could wait for the holidays to start. While the Gryffindor common 
room and the Great Hall had roaring fires, the drafty corridors had 
become icy and a bitter wind rattled the windows in the classrooms. 
Worst of all were Professor Snape's classes down in the dungeons, where 
their breath rose in a mist before them and they kept as close as 
possible to their hot cauldrons. 

"I do feel so sorry," said Draco Malfoy, one Potions class, "for all 
those people who have to stay at Hogwarts for Christmas because they're 
not wanted at home." 

He was looking over at Harry as he spoke. Crabbe and Goyle chuckled. 
Harry, who was measuring out powdered spine of lionfish, ignored them. 
Malfoy had been even more unpleasant than usual since the Quidditch 
match. Disgusted that the Slytherins had lost, he had tried to get 
everyone laughing at how a wide-mouthed tree frog would be replacing 
Harry as Seeker next. Then he'd realized that nobody found this funny, 
because they were all so impressed at the way Harry had managed to stay 
on his bucking broomstick. So Malfoy, jealous and angry, had gone back 
to taunting Harry about having no proper family. 

It was true that Harry wasn't going back to Privet Drive for Christmas. 
Professor McGonagall had come around the week before, making a list of 
students who would be staying for the holidays, and Harry had signed up 
at once. He didn't feel sorry for himself at all; this would probably be 
the best Christmas he'd ever had. Ron and his brothers were staying, 
too, because Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were going to Romania to visit 
Charlie. 

When they left the dungeons at the end of Potions, they found a large 
fir tree blocking the corridor ahead. Two enormous feet sticking out at 
the bottom and a loud puffing sound told them that Hagrid was behind it. 

"Hi, Hagrid, want any help?" Ron asked, sticking his head through the 
branches. 

155



"Nah, I'm all right, thanks, Ron." 

"Would you mind moving out of the way?" came Malfoys cold drawl from 
behind them. "Are you trying to earn some extra money, Weasley? Hoping 
to be gamekeeper yourself when you leave Hogwarts, I suppose -- that hut 
of Hagrid's must seem like a palace compared to what your family's used 
to." 

Ron dived at Malfoy just as Snape came up the stairs. 

"WEASLEY!" 

Ron let go of the front of Malfoy's robes. 

"He was provoked, Professor Snape," said Hagrid, sticking his huge hairy 
face out from behind the tree. "Malfoy was insultin' his family." 

"Be that as it may, fighting is against Hogwarts rules, Hagrid," said 
Snape silkily. "Five points from Gryffindor, Weasley, and be grateful it 
isn't more. Move along, all of you." 

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle pushed roughly past the tree, scattering 
needles everywhere and smirking. 

"I'll get him," said Ron, grinding his teeth at Malfoy's back, "one of 
these days, I'll get him --" 

"I hate them both," said Harry, "Malfoy and Snape." 

"Come on, cheer up, it's nearly Christmas," said Hagrid. "Tell yeh what, 
come with me an' see the Great Hall, looks a treat." 

So the three of them followed Hagrid and his tree off to -the Great 
Hall, where Professor McGonagall and Professor Flitwick were busy with 
the Christmas decorations. 

"Ah, Hagrid, the last tree -- put it in the far corner, would you?" 

The hall looked spectacular. Festoons of holly and mistletoe hung all 
around the walls, and no less than twelve towering Christmas trees stood 
around the room, some sparkling with tiny icicles, some glittering with 
hundreds of candles. 

156



"How many days you got left until yer holidays?" Hagrid asked. 

"Just one," said Hermione. "And that reminds me -Harry, Ron, we've got 
half an hour before lunch, we should be in the library." 

"Oh yeah, you're right," said Ron, tearing his eyes away from Professor 
Flitwick, who had golden bubbles blossoming out of his wand and was 
trailing them over the branches of the new tree. 

"The library?" said Hagrid, following them out of the hall. "Just before 
the holidays? Bit keen, aren't yeh?" 

"Oh, we're not working," Harry told him brightly. "Ever since you 
mentioned Nicolas Flamel we've been trying to find out who he is." 

"You what?" Hagrid looked shocked. "Listen here -- I've told yeh -- drop 
it. It's nothin' to you what that dog's guardin'." 

"We just want to know who Nicolas Flamel is, that's all," said Hermione. 

"Unless you'd like to tell us and save us the trouble?" Harry added. "We 
must've been through hundreds of books already and we can't find him 
anywhere -- just give us a hint -- I know I've read his name somewhere." 

"I'm sayin' nothin, said Hagrid flatly. 

"Just have to find out for ourselves, then," said Ron, and they left 
Hagrid looking disgruntled and hurried off to the library. 

They had indeed been searching books for Flamel's name ever since Hagrid 
had let it slip, because how else were they going to find out what Snape 
was trying to steal? The trouble was, it was very hard to know where to 
begin, not knowing what Flamel might have done to get himself into a 
book. He wasn't in Great Wizards of the Twentieth Century, or Notable 
Magical Names of Our Time; he was missing, too, from Important Modern 
Magical Discoveries, and A Study of Recent Developments in Wizardry. And 
then, of course, there was the sheer size of the library; tens of 
thousands of books; thousands of shelves; hundreds of narrow rows. 

Hermione took out a list of subjects and titles she had decided to 
search while Ron strode off down a row of books and started pulling them 
off the shelves at random. Harry wandered over to the Restricted 
Section. He had been wondering for a while if Flamel wasn't somewhere in 

157



there. Unfortunately, you needed a specially signed note from one of the 
teachers to look in any of the restricted books, and he knew he'd never 
get one. These were the books containing powerful Dark Magic never 
taught at Hogwarts, and only read by older students studying advanced 
Defense Against the Dark Arts. 

"What are you looking for, boy?" 

"Nothing," said Harry. 

Madam Pince the librarian brandished a feather duster at him. 

"You'd better get out, then. Go on -- out!" 

Wishing he'd been a bit quicker at thinking up some story, Harry left 
the library. He, Ron, and Hermione had already agreed they'd better not 
ask Madam Pince where they could find Flamel. They were sure she'd be 
able to tell them, but they couldn't risk Snape hearing what they were 
up to. 

Harry waited outside in the corridor to see if the other two had found 
anything, but he wasn't very hopeful. They had been looking for two 
weeks, after A, but as they only had odd moments between lessons it 
wasn't surprising they'd found nothing. What they really needed was a 
nice long search without Madam Pince breathing down their necks. 

Five minutes later, Ron and Hermione joined him, shaking their heads. 
They went off to lunch. 

"You will keep looking while I'm away, won't you?" said Hermione. "And 
send me an owl if you find anything." 

"And you could ask your parents if they know who Flamel is," said Ron. 
"It'd be safe to ask them." 

"Very safe, as they're both dentists," said Hermione. 

Once the holidays had started, Ron and Harry were having too good a time 
to think much about Flamel. They had the dormitory to themselves and the 
common room was far emptier than usual, so they were able to get the 
good armchairs by the fire. They sat by the hour eating anything they 
could spear on a toasting fork -- bread, English muffins, marshmallows 
-- and plotting ways of getting Malfoy expelled, which were fun to talk 

158



about even if they wouldn't work. 

Ron also started teaching Harry wizard chess. This was exactly like 
Muggle chess except that the figures were alive, which made it a lot 
like directing troops in battle. Ron's set was very old and battered. 
Like everything else he owned, it had once belonged to someone else in 
his family -- in this case, his grandfather. However, old chessmen 
weren't a drawback at all. Ron knew them so well he never had trouble 
getting them to do what he wanted. 

Harry played with chessmen Seamus Finnigan had lent him, and they didn't 
trust him at all. He wasn't a very good player yet and they kept 
shouting different bits of advice at him, which was confusing. "Don't 
send me there, can't you see his knight? Send him, we can afford to lose 
him." On Christmas Eve, Harry went to bed looking forward to the next 
day for the food and the fun, but not expecting any presents at all. 
When he woke early in the morning, however, the first thing he saw was a 
small pile of packages at the foot of his bed. 

"Merry Christmas," said Ron sleepily as Harry scrambled out of bed and 
pulled on his bathrobe. 

"You, too," said Harry. "Will you look at this? I've got some presents!" 

"What did you expect, turnips?" said Ron, turning to his own pile, which 
was a lot bigger than Harry's. 

Harry picked up the top parcel. It was wrapped in thick brown paper and 
scrawled across it was To Harry, from Hagrid. Inside was a roughly cut 
wooden flute. Hagrid had obviously whittled it himself. Harry blew it -
it sounded a bit like an owl. 

A second, very small parcel contained a note. 

We received your message and enclose your Christmas present. From Uncle 
Vernon and Aunt Petunia. Taped to the note was a fifty-pence piece. 

"That's friendly," said Harry. 

Ron was fascinated by the fifty pence. 

"Weird!" he said, 'NMat a shape! This is money?" 

159



"You can keep it," said Harry, laughing at how pleased Ron was. "Hagrid 
and my aunt and uncle -- so who sent these?" 

"I think I know who that one's from," said Ron, turning a bit pink and 
pointing to a very lumpy parcel. "My mom. I told her you didn't expect 
any presents and -- oh, no," he groaned, "she's made you a Weasley 
sweater." 

Harry had torn open the parcel to find a thick, hand-knitted sweater in 
emerald green and a large box of homemade fudge. 

"Every year she makes us a sweater," said Ron, unwrapping his own, "and 
mine's always maroon." 

"That's really nice of her," said Harry, trying the fudge, which was 
very tasty. 

His next present also contained candy -- a large box of Chocolate Frogs 
from Hermione. 

This only left one parcel. Harry picked it up and felt it. It was very 
light. He unwrapped it. 

Something fluid and silvery gray went slithering to the floor where it 
lay in gleaming folds. Ron gasped. 

"I've heard of those," he said in a hushed voice, dropping the box of 
Every Flavor Beans he'd gotten from Hermione. "If that's what I think it 
is -- they're really rare, and really valuable." 

"What is it?" 

Harry picked the shining, silvery cloth off the floor. It was strange to 
the touch, like water woven into material. 

"It's an invisibility cloak," said Ron, a look of awe on his face. "I'm 
sure it is -- try it on." 

Harry threw the cloak around his shoulders and Ron gave a yell. 

"It is! Look down!" 

Harry looked down at his feet, but they were gone. He dashed to the 

160



mirror. Sure enough, his reflection looked back at him, just his head 
suspended in midair, his body completely invisible. He pulled the cloak 
over his head and his reflection vanished completely. 

"There's a note!" said Ron suddenly. "A note fell out of it!" 

Harry pulled off the cloak and seized the letter. Written in narrow, 
loopy writing he had never seen before were the following words: Your 
father left this in my possession before he died. It is time it was 
returned to you. Use it well. 

A Very Merry Christmas to you. 

There was no signature. Harry stared at the note. Ron was admiring the 
cloak. 

"I'd give anything for one of these," he said. "Anything. What's the 
matter?" 

"Nothing," said Harry. He felt very strange. Who had sent the cloak? Had 
it really once belonged to his father? 

Before he could say or think anything else, the dormitory door was flung 
open and Fred and George Weasley bounded in. Harry stuffed the cloak 
quickly out of sight. He didn't feel like sharing it with anyone else 
yet. 

"Merry Christmas!" 

"Hey, look -- Harry's got a Weasley sweater, too!" 

Fred and George were wearing blue sweaters, one with a large yellow F on 
it, the other a G. 

"Harry's is better than ours, though," said Fred, holding up Harry's 
sweater. "She obviously makes more of an effort if you're not family." 

"Why aren't you wearing yours, Ron?" George demanded. "Come on, get it 
on, they're lovely and warm." 

"I hate maroon," Ron moaned halfheartedly as he pulled it over his head. 

161



"You haven't got a letter on yours," George observed. "I suppose she 
thinks you don't forget your name. But we're not stupid -- we know we're 
called Gred and Forge." 

"What's all th is noise. 

Percy Weasley stuck his head through the door, looking disapproving. He 
had clearly gotten halfway through unwrapping his presents as he, too, 
carried a lumpy sweater over his arm, which 

Fred seized. 

"P for prefect! Get it on, Percy, come on, we're all wearing ours, even 
Harry got one." 

"I -- don't -- want said Percy thickly, as the twins forced the sweater 
over his head, knocking his glasses askew. 

"And you're not sitting with the prefects today, either," said 

George. "Christmas is a time for family." 

They frog-marched Percy from the room, his arms pinned to his side by 
his sweater. 

Harry had never in all his life had such a Christmas dinner. A hundred 
fat, roast turkeys; mountains of roast and boiled potatoes; platters of 
chipolatas; tureens of buttered peas, silver boats of thick, rich gravy 
and cranberry sauce -- and stacks of wizard crackers every few feet 
along the table. These fantastic party favors were nothing like the 
feeble Muggle ones the Dursleys usually bought, with their little 
plastic toys and their flimsy paper hats inside. Harry pulled a wizard 
cracker with Fred and it didn't just bang, it went off with a blast like 
a cannon and engulfed them all in a cloud of blue smoke, while from the 
inside exploded a rear admiral's hat and several live, white mice. Up at 
the High Table, Dumbledore had swapped his pointed wizard's hat for a 
flowered bonnet, and was chuckling merrily at a joke Professor Flitwick 
had just read him. 

Flaming Christmas puddings followed the turkey. Percy nearly broke his 
teeth on a silver sickle embedded in his slice. Harry watched Hagrid 
getting redder and redder in the face as he called for more wine, 
finally kissing Professor McGonagall on the cheek, who, to Harry's 

162



amazement, giggled and blushed, her top hat lopsided.


When Harry finally left the table, he was laden down with a stack of
things out of the crackers, including a pack of nonexplodable, luminous
balloons, a Grow-Your-Own-Warts kit, and his own new wizard chess set.
The white mice had disappeared and Harry had a nasty feeling they were
going to end up as Mrs. Norris's Christmas dinner.


Harry and the Weasleys spent a happy afternoon having a furious snowball
fight on the grounds. Then, cold, wet, and gasping for breath, they
returned to the fire in the Gryffindor common room, where Harry broke in
his new chess set by losing spectacularly to Ron. He suspected he
wouldn't have lost so badly if Percy hadn't tried to help him so much.


After a meal of turkey sandwiches, crumpets, trifle, and Christmas cake,
everyone felt too full and sleepy to do much before bed except sit and
watch Percy chase Fred and George all over Gryffindor tower because
they'd stolen his prefect badge.


It had been Harry's best Christmas day ever. Yet something had been
nagging at the back of his mind all day. Not until he climbed into bed
was he free to think about it: the invisibility cloak and whoever had
sent it.


Ron, full of turkey and cake and with nothing mysterious to bother him,
fell asleep almost as soon as he'd drawn the curtains of his
four-poster. Harry leaned over the side of his own bed and pulled the
cloak out from under it.


His father's... this had been his father's. He let the material flow
over his hands, smoother than silk, light as air. Use it well, the note
had said.


He had to try it, now. He slipped out of bed and wrapped the cloak
around himself. Looking down at his legs, he saw only moonlight and
shadows. It was a very funny feeling.


Use it well.


Suddenly, Harry felt wide-awake. The whole of Hogwarts was open to him
in this cloak. Excitement flooded through him as he stood there in the
dark and silence. He could go anywhere in this, anywhere, and Filch
would never know.


163



Ron grunted in his sleep. Should Harry wake him? Something held him back
-- his father's cloak -- he felt that this time -- the first time -- he
wanted to use it alone.


He crept out of the dormitory, down the stairs, across the common room,
and climbed through the portrait hole.


"Who's there?" squawked the Fat Lady. Harry said nothing. He walked
quickly down the corridor.


Where should he go? He stopped, his heart racing, and thought. And then
it came to him. The Restricted Section in the library. He'd be able to
read as long as he liked, as long as it took to find out who Flamel was.
He set off, drawing the invisibility cloak tight around him as he
walked.


The library was pitch-black and very eerie. Harry lit a lamp to see his
way along the rows of books. The lamp looked as if it was floating along
in midair, and even though Harry could feel his arm supporting it, the
sight gave him the creeps.


The Restricted Section was right at the back of the library. Step ping
carefully over the rope that separated these books from the rest of the
library, he held up his lamp to read the titles.


They didn't tell him much. Their peeling, faded gold letters spelled
words in languages Harry couldn't understand. Some had no title at all.
One book had a dark stain on it that looked horribly like blood. The
hairs on the back of Harry's neck prickled. Maybe he was imagining it,
maybe not, but he thought a faint whispering was coming from the books,
as though they knew someone was there who shouldn't be.


He had to start somewhere. Setting the lamp down carefully on the floor,
he looked along the bottom shelf for an interestinglooking book. A large
black and silver volume caught his eye. He pulled it out with
difficulty, because it was very heavy, and, balancing it on his knee,
let it fall open.


A piercing, bloodcurdling shriek split the silence -- the book was
screaming! Harry snapped it shut, but the shriek went on and on, one
high, unbroken, earsplitting note. He stumbled backward and knocked over
his lamp, which went out at once. Panicking, he heard footsteps coming


164



down the corridor outside -- stuffing the shrieking book back on the 
shelf, he ran for it. He passed Filch in the doorway; Filch's pale, wild 
eyes looked straight through him, and Harry slipped under Filch's 
outstretched arm and streaked off up the corridor, the book's shrieks 
still ringing in his ears. 

He came to a sudden halt in front of a tall suit of armor. He had been 
so busy getting away from the library, he hadn't paid attention to where 
he was going. Perhaps because it was dark, he didn't recognize where he 
was at all. There was a suit of armor near the kitchens, he knew, but he 
must be five floors above there. 

"You asked me to come directly to you, Professor, if anyone was 
wandering around at night, and somebody's been in the library Restricted 
Section." 

Harry felt the blood drain out of his face. Wherever he was, Filch must 
know a shortcut, because his soft, greasy voice was getting nearer, and 
to his horror, it was Snape who replied, "The Restricted Section? Well, 
they can't be far, we'll catch them." 

Harry stood rooted to the spot as Filch and Snape came around the corner 
ahead. They couldn't see him, of course, but it was a narrow corridor 
and if they came much nearer they'd knock right into him -- the cloak 
didn't stop him from being solid. 

He backed away as quietly as he could. A door stood ajar to his left. It 
was his only hope. He squeezed through it, holding his breath, trying 
not to move it, and to his relief he managed to get inside the room 
without their noticing anything. They walked straight past, and Harry 
leaned against the wall, breathing deeply, listening to their footsteps 
dying away. That had been close, very close. It was a few seconds before 
he noticed anything about the room he had hidden in. 

It looked like an unused classroom. The dark shapes of desks and chairs 
were piled against the walls, and there was an upturned wastepaper 
basket -- but propped against the wall facing him was something that 
didn't look as if it belonged there, something that looked as if someone 
had just put it there to keep it out of the way. 

It was a magnificent mirror, as high as the ceiling, with an ornate gold 
frame, standing on two clawed feet. There was an inscription carved 
around the top: Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi. His panic 

165



fading now that there was no sound of Filch and Snape, Harry moved 
nearer to the mirror, wanting to look at himself but see no reflection 
again. He stepped in front of it. 

He had to clap his hands to his mouth to stop himself from screaming. He 
whirled around. His heart was pounding far more furiously than when the 
book had screamed -- for he had seen not only himself in the mirror, but 
a whole crowd of people standing right behind him. 

But the room was empty. Breathing very fast, he turned slowly back to 
the mirror. 

There he was, reflected in it, white and scared-looking, and there, 
reflected behind him, were at least ten others. Harry looked over his 
shoulder -- but still, no one was there. Or were they all invisible, 
too? Was he in fact in a room full of invisible people and this mirror's 
trick was that it reflected them, invisible or not? 

He looked in the mirror again. A woman standing right behind his 
reflection was smiling at him and waving. He reached out a hand and felt 
the air behind him. If she was really there, he'd touch her, their 
reflections were so close together, but he felt only air -- she and the 
others existed only in the mirror. 

She was a very pretty woman. She had dark red hair and her eyes -- her 
eyes are just like mine, Harry thought, edging a little closer to the 
glass. Bright green -- exactly the same shape, but then he noticed that 
she was crying; smiling, but crying at the same time. The tall, thin, 
black-haired man standing next to her put his arm around her. He wore 
glasses, and his hair was very untidy. It stuck up at the back, just as 
Harry's did. 

Harry was so close to the mirror now that his nose was nearly touching 
that of his reflection. 

"Mom?" he whispered. "Dad?" 

They just looked at him, smiling. And slowly, Harry looked into the 
faces of the other people in the mirror, and saw other pairs of green 
eyes like his, other noses like his, even a little old man who looked as 
though he had Harry's knobbly knees -- Harry was looking at his family, 
for the first time in his life. 

166



The Potters smiled and waved at Harry and he stared hungrily back at 
them, his hands pressed flat against the glass as though he was hoping 
to fall right through it and reach them. He had a powerful kind of ache 
inside him, half joy, half terrible sadness. 

How long he stood there, he didn't know. The reflections did not fade 
and he looked and looked until a distant noise brought him back to his 
senses. He couldn't stay here, he had to find his way back to bed. He 
tore his eyes away from his mother's face, whispered, "I'll come back," 
and hurried from the room. 

"You could have woken me up," said Ron, crossly. 

"You can come tonight, I'm going back, I want to show you the mirror. 

"I'd like to see your mom and dad," Ron said eagerly. 

"And I want to see all your family, all the Weasleys, you'll be able to 
show me your other brothers and everyone." 

"You can see them any old time," said Ron. "Just come round my house 
this summer. Anyway, maybe it only shows dead people. Shame about not 
finding Flamel, though. Have some bacon or something, why aren't you 
eating anything?" 

Harry couldn't eat. He had seen his parents and would be seeing them 
again tonight. He had almost forgotten about Flamel. It didn't seem very 
important anymore. Who cared what the three headed dog was guarding? 
What did it matter if Snape stole it, really? 

"Are you all right?" said Ron. "You look odd." 

What Harry feared most was that he might not be able to find the mirror 
room again. With Ron covered in the cloak, too, they had to walk much 
more slowly the next night. They tried retracing Harry's route from the 
library, wandering around the dark passageways for nearly an hour. 

"I'm freezing," said Ron. "Let's forget it and go back." 

"No!" Harry hissed. I know it's here somewhere." 

They passed the ghost of a tall witch gliding in the opposite direction, 
but saw no one else. just as Ron started moaning that his feet were dead 

167



with cold, Harry spotted the suit of armor.
"It's here -- just here -- yes!"
They pushed the door open. Harry dropped the cloak from around his


shoulders and ran to the mirror.
There they were. His mother and father beamed at the sight of him.
"See?" Harry whispered.
"I can't see anything."
"Look! Look at them all... there are loads of them...."
"I can only see you."
"Look in it properly, go on, stand where I am."
Harry stepped aside, but with Ron in front of the mirror, he couldn't


see his family anymore, just Ron in his paisley pajamas.
Ron, though, was staring transfixed at his image.
"Look at me!" he said.
"Can you see all your family standing around you?"
"No -- I'm alone -- but I'm different -- I look older -- and I'm head


boy!"
"What?"
"I am -- I'm wearing the badge like Bill used to -- and I'm holding the


house cup and the Quidditch cup -- I'm Quidditch captain, too.


Ron tore his eyes away from this splendid sight to look excitedly at
Harry.
"Do you think this mirror shows the future?"
"How can it? All my family are dead -- let me have another look --"


168



"You had it to yourself all last night, give me a bit more time."


"You're only holding the Quidditch cup, what's interesting about that? I
want to see my parents."
"Don't push me --"
A sudden noise outside in the corridor put an end to their discussion.


They hadn't realized how loudly they had been talking.
"Quick!"
Ron threw the cloak back over them as the luminous eyes of Mrs. Norris


came round the door. Ron and Harry stood quite still, both thinking the 
same thing -- did the cloak work on cats? After what seemed an age, she 
turned and left. 

"This isn't safe -- she might have gone for Filch, I bet she heard us.
Come on."
And Ron pulled Harry out of the room.
The snow still hadn't melted the next morning.
"Want to play chess, Harry?" said Ron.
"No."
"Why don't we go down and visit Hagrid?"


"No... you go..."
"I know what you're thinking about, Harry, that mirror. Don't go back
tonight."


"Why not?"
"I dunno, I've just got a bad feeling about it -- and anyway, you've had
too many close shaves already. Filch, Snape, and Mrs. Norris are


wandering around. So what if they can't see you? What if they walk into
you? What if you knock something over?"
"You sound like Hermione."


169



"I'm serious, Harry, don't go." 

But Harry only had one thought in his head, which was to get back in 
front of the mirror, and Ron wasn't going to stop him. 
That third night he found his way more quickly than before. He was 

walking so fast he knew he was making more noise than was wise, but he 

didn't meet anyone. 
And there were his mother and father smiling at him again, and one of 
his grandfathers nodding happily. Harry sank down to sit on the floor in 
front of the mirror. There was nothing to stop him from staying here all 
night with his family. Nothing at all. 

Except -
"So -- back again, Harry?" 
Harry felt as though his insides had turned to ice. He looked behind 

him. Sitting on one of the desks by the wall was none other than Albus 
Dumbledore. Harry must have walked straight past him, so desperate to 
get to the mirror he hadn't noticed him. 

" -- I didn't see you, sir." 

"Strange how nearsighted being invisible can make you," said Dumbledore,
and Harry was relieved to see that he was smiling.
"So," said Dumbledore, slipping off the desk to sit on the floor with


Harry, "you, like hundreds before you, have discovered the delights of
the Mirror of Erised."
"I didn't know it was called that, Sir."
"But I expect you've realized by now what it does?"
"It -- well -- it shows me my family --"
"And it showed your friend Ron himself as head boy."
"How did you know --?"


170



"I don't need a cloak to become invisible," said Dumbledore gently. 
"Now, can you think what the Mirror of Erised shows us all?" 

Harry shook his head. 

"Let me explain. The happiest man on earth would be able to use the 
Mirror of Erised like a normal mirror, that is, he would look into it 
and see himself exactly as he is. Does that help?" 

Harry thought. Then he said slowly, "It shows us what we want... 
whatever we want..." 

"Yes and no," said Dumbledore quietly. "It shows us nothing more or less 
than the deepest, most desperate desire of our hearts. You, who have 
never known your family, see them standing around you. Ronald Weasley, 
who has always been overshadowed by his brothers, sees himself standing 
alone, the best of all of them. However, this mirror will give us 
neither knowledge or truth. Men have wasted away before it, entranced by 
what they have seen, or been driven mad, not knowing if what it shows is 
real or even possible. 

"The Mirror will be moved to a new home tomorrow, Harry, and I ask you 
not to go looking for it again. If you ever do run across it, you will 
now be prepared. It does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live, 
remember that. Now, why don't you put that admirable cloak back on and 
get off to bed?" 

Harry stood up. 

"Sir -- Professor Dumbledore? Can I ask you something?" 

"Obviously, you've just done so," Dumbledore smiled. "You may ask me one 
more thing, however." 

"What do you see when you look in the mirror?" 

"I? I see myself holding a pair of thick, woolen socks." 

Harry stared. 

"One can never have enough socks," said Dumbledore. "Another Christmas 
has come and gone and I didn't get a single pair. People will insist on 
giving me books." 

171



It was only when he was back in bed that it struck Harry that Dumbledore 
might not have been quite truthful. But then, he thought, as he shoved 
Scabbers off his pillow, it had been quite a personal question. 

CHAPTER THIRTEEN 

NICOLAS FLAMEL 

Dumbledore had convinced Harry not to go looking for the Mirror of 
Erised again, and for the rest of the Christmas holidays the 
invisibility cloak stayed folded at the bottom of his trunk. Harry 
wished he could forget what he'd seen in the mirror as easily, but he 
couldn't. He started having nightmares. Over and over again he dreamed 
about his parents disappearing in a flash of green light, while a high 
voice cackled with laughter. 

"You see, Dumbledore was right, that mirror could drive you mad," said 
Ron, when Harry told him about these drearns. 

Hermione, who came back the day before term started, took a different 
view of things. She was torn between horror at the idea of Harry being 
out of bed, roaming the school three nights in a row ("If Filch had 
caught you!"), and disappointment that he hadn't at least found out who 
Nicolas Flamel was. 

They had almost given up hope of ever finding Flamel in a li- brary 
book, even though Harry was still sure he'd read the name somewhere. 
Once term had started, they were back to skimming through books for ten 
minutes during their breaks. Harry had even less time than the other 
two, because Quidditch practice had started again. 

Wood was working the team harder than ever. Even the endless rain that 
had replaced the snow couldn't dampen his spirits. The Weasleys 
complained that Wood was becoming a fanatic, but Harry was on Wood's 
side. If they won their next match, against Hufflepuff, they would 
overtake Slytherin in the house championship for the first time in seven 
years. Quite apart from wanting to win, Harry found that he had fewer 
nightmares when he was tired out after training. 

Then, during one particularly wet and muddy practice session, Wood gave 
the team a bit of bad news. He'd just gotten very angry with the 

172



Weasleys, who kept dive-bombing each other and pretending to fall off 
their brooms. 

"Will you stop messing around!" he yelled. "That's exactly the sort of 
thing that'll lose us the match! Snape's refereeing this time, and he'll 
be looking for any excuse to knock points off Gryffindor!" 

George Weasley really did fall off his broom at these words. 

"Snape's refereeing?" he spluttered through a mouthful of mud. "When's 
he ever refereed a Quidditch match? He's not going to be fair if we 
might overtake Slytherin." 

The rest of the team landed next to George to complain, too. 

"It's not my fault," said Wood. "We've just got to make sure we play a 
clean game, so Snape hasn't got an excuse to pick on us." 

Which was all very well, thought Harry, but he had another reason for 
not wanting Snape near him while he was playing Quidditch.... 

The rest of the team hung back to talk to one another as usual at the 
end of practice, but Harry headed straight back to the Gryffindor common 
room, where he found Ron and Hermione playing chess. Chess was the only 
thing Hermione ever lost at, something Harry and Ron thought was very 
good for her. 

"Don't talk to me for a moment," said Ron when Harry sat down next to 
him, "I need to concen --" He caught sight of Harry's face. "What's the 
matter with you? You look terrible." 

Speaking quietly so that no one else would hear, Harry told the other 
two about Snape's sudden, sinister desire to be a Quidditch referee. 

"Don't play," said Hermione at once. 

"Say you're ill," said Ron. 

"Pretend to break your leg," Hermione suggested. 

"Really break your leg," said Ron. 

"I can't," said Harry. "There isn't a reserve Seeker. If I back out, 

173



Gryffindor can't play at all." 

At that moment Neville toppled into the common room. How he had managed 
to climb through the portrait hole was anyone's guess, because his legs 
had been stuck together with what they recognized at once as the 
Leg-Locker Curse. He must have had to bunny hop all the way up to 
Gryffindor tower. 

Everyone fell over laughing except Hermione, who leapt up and performed 
the countercurse. Neville's legs sprang apart and he got to his feet, 
trembling. "What happened?" Hermione asked him, leading him over to sit 
with Harry and Ron. 

"Malfoy," said Neville shakily. "I met him outside the library. He said 
he'd been looking for someone to practice that on." 

"Go to Professor McGonagall!" Hermione urged Neville. "Report him!" 

Neville shook his head. 

"I don't want more trouble," he mumbled. 

"You've got to stand up to him, Neville!" said Ron. "He's used to 
walking all over people, but that's no reason to lie down in front of 
him and make it easier." 

"There's no need to tell me I'm not brave enough to be in Gryffindor, 
Malfoy's already done that," Neville choked out. 

Harry felt in the pocket of his robes and pulled out a Chocolate Frog, 
the very last one from the box Hermione had given him for Christmas. He 
gave it to Neville, who looked as though he might cry. 

"You're worth twelve of Malfoy," Harry said. "The Sorting Hat chose you 
for Gryffindor, didn't it? And where's Malfoy? In stinking Slytherin." 

Neville's lips twitched in a weak smile as he unwrapped the frog. 

"Thanks, Harry... I think I'll go to bed.... D'you want the card, you 
collect them, don't you?" 

As Neville walked away, Harry looked at the Famous Wizard card. 

174



"Dumbledore again," he said, "He was the first one I ever-" 

He gasped. He stared at the back of the card. Then he looked up at Ron 
and Hermione. 

"I've found him!" he whispered. "I've found Flamel! I told you I'd read 
the name somewhere before, I read it on the train coming here -- listen 
to this: 'Dumbledore is particularly famous for his defeat of the dark 
wizard Grindelwald in 1945, for the discovery of the twelve uses of 
dragon's blood, and his work on alchemy with his partner, Nicolas 
Flamel'!" 

Hermione jumped to her feet. She hadn't looked so excited since they'd 
gotten back the marks for their very first piece of homework. 

"Stay there!" she said, and she sprinted up the stairs to the girls' 
dormitories. Harry and Ron barely had time to exchange mystified looks 
before she was dashing back, an enormous old book in her arms. 

"I never thought to look in here!" she whispered excitedly. "I got this 
out of the library weeks ago for a bit of light reading." 

"Light?" said Ron, but Hermione told him to be quiet until she'd looked 
something up, and started flicking frantically through the pages, 
muttering to herself. 

At last she found what she was looking for. 

"I knew it! I knew it!" 

"Are we allowed to speak yet?" said Ron grumpily. Hermione ignored him. 

"Nicolas Flamel," she whispered dramatically, "is the only known maker 
of the Sorcerer's Stone!" 

This didn't have quite the effect she'd expected. 

"The what?" said Harry and Ron. 

"Oh, honestly, don't you two read? Look -- read that, there." 

She pushed the book toward them, and Harry and Ron read: The ancient 
study of alchemy is concerned with making the Sorcerer's Stone, a 

175



legendary substance with astonishing powers. The stone will transform 
any metal into pure gold. It also produces the Elixir of Life, which 
will make the drinker immortal. 

There have been many reports of the Sorcerer's Stone over the centuries, 
but the only Stone currently in existence belongs to Mr. Nicolas Flamel, 
the noted alchemist and opera lover. Mr. Flamel, who celebrated his six 
hundred and sixty-fifth birthday last year, enjoys a quiet life in Devon 
with his wife, Perenelle (six hundred and fifty-eight). 

"See?" said Hermione, when Harry and Ron had finished. "The dog must be 
guarding Flamel's Sorcerer's Stone! I bet he asked Dumbledore to keep it 
safe for him, because they're friends and he knew someone was after it, 
that's why he wanted the Stone moved out of Gringotts!" 

"A stone that makes gold and stops you from ever dying!" said Harry. "No 
wonder Snape's after it! Anyone would want it." 

"And no wonder we couldn't find Flamel in that Study of Recent 
Developments in Wizardry," said Ron. "He's not exactly recent if he's 
six hundred and sixty-five, is he?" 

The next morning in Defense Against the Dark Arts, while copying down 
different ways of treating werewolf bites, Harry and Ron were still 
discussing what they'd do with a Sorcerer's Stone if they had one. It 
wasn't until Ron said he'd buy his own Quidditch team that Harry 
remembered about Snape and the coming match. 

"I'm going to play," he told Ron and Hermione. "If I don't, all the 
Slytherins will think I'm just too scared to face Snape. I'll show 
them... it'll really wipe the smiles off their faces if we win." 

"Just as long as we're not wiping you off the field," said Hermione. 

As the match drew nearer, however, Harry became more and more nervous, 
whatever he told Ron and Hermione. The rest of the team wasn't too calm, 
either. The idea of overtaking Slytherin in the house championship was 
wonderful, no one had done it for seven years, but would they be allowed 
to, with such a biased referee? 

Harry didn't know whether he was imagining it or not, but he seemed to 
keep running into Snape wherever he went. At times, he even wondered 
whether Snape was following him, trying to catch him on his own. Potions 

176



lessons were turning into a sort of weekly torture, Snape was so 
horrible to Harry. Could Snape possibly know they'd found out about the 
Sorcerer's Stone? Harry didn't see how he could -- yet he sometimes had 
the horrible feeling that Snape could read minds. 

Harry knew, when they wished him good luck outside the locker rooms the 
next afternoon, that Ron and Hermione were wondering whether they'd ever 
see him alive again. This wasn't what you'd call comforting. Harry 
hardly heard a word of Wood's pep talk as he pulled on his Quidditch 
robes and picked up his Nimbus Two Thousand. 

Ron and Hermione, meanwhile, had found a place in the stands next to 
Neville, who couldn't understand why they looked so grim and worried, or 
why they had both brought their wands to the match. Little did Harry 
know that Ron and Hermione had been secretly practicing the Leg-Locker 
Curse. They'd gotten the idea from Malfoy using it on Neville, and were 
ready to use it on Snape if he showed any sign of wanting to hurt Harry. 

"Now, don't forget, it's Locomotor Mortis," Hermione muttered as Ron 
slipped his wand up his sleeve. 

"I know," Ron snapped. "Don't nag." 

Back in the locker room, Wood had taken Harry aside. 

"Don't want to pressure you, Potter, but if we ever need an early 
capture of the Snitch it's now. Finish the game before Snape can favor 
Hufflepuff too much." 

"The whole school's out there!" said Fred Weasley, peering out of the 
door. "Even -- blimey -- Dumbledore's come to watch!" 

Harry's heart did a somersault. 

"Dumbledore?" he said, dashing to the door to make sure. Fred was right. 
There was no mistaking that silver beard. 

Harry could have laughed out loud with relief He was safe. There was 
simply no way that Snape would dare to try to hurt him if Dumbledore was 
watching. 

Perhaps that was why Snape was looking so angry as the teams marched 
onto the field, something that Ron noticed, too. 

177



"I've never seen Snape look so mean," he told Hermione. "Look -they're
off Ouch!"
Someone had poked Ron in the back of the head. It was Malfoy.
"Oh, sorry, Weasley, didn't see you there."


Malfoy grinned broadly at Crabbe and Goyle.
"Wonder how long Potter's going to stay on his broom this time? Anyone
want a bet? What about you, Weasley?"


Ron didn't answer; Snape had just awarded Hufflepuff a penalty because 
George Weasley had hit a Bludger at him. Hermione, who had all her 
fingers crossed in her lap, was squinting fixedly at Harry, who was 
circling the game like a hawk, looking for the Snitch. 

"You know how I think they choose people for the Gryffindor team?" said 
Malfoy loudly a few minutes later, as Snape awarded Hufflepuff another 
penalty for no reason at all. "It's people they feel sorry for. See, 
there's Potter, who's got no parents, then there's the Weasleys, who've 
got no money -- you should be on the team, Longbottom, you've got no 
brains." 

Neville went bright red but turned in his seat to face Malfoy.
"I'm worth twelve of you, Malfoy," he stammered.
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle howled with laughter, but Ron, still not


daring to take his eyes from the game, said, "You tell him, Neville."


"Longbottom, if brains were gold you'd be poorer than Weasley, and 
that's saying something." 
Ron's nerves were already stretched to the breaking point with anxiety 

about Harry.
"I'm warning you, Malfoy -- one more word
"Ron!" said Hermione suddenly, "Harry --"
"What? Where?"


178



Harry had suddenly gone into a spectacular dive, which drew gasps and 
cheers from the crowd. Hermione stood up, her crossed fingers in her 
mouth, as Harry streaked toward the ground like a bullet. 

"You're in luck, Weasley, Potter's obviously spotted some money on the 
ground!" said Malfoy. 

Ron snapped. Before Malfoy knew what was happening, Ron was on top of 
him, wrestling him to the ground. Neville hesitated, then clambered over 
the back of his seat to help. 

"Come on, Harry!" Hermione screamed, leaping onto her seat to watch as 
Harry sped straight at Snape -- she didn't even notice Malfoy and Ron 
rolling around under her seat, or the scuffles and yelps coming from the 
whirl of fists that was Neville, Crabbe, and Goyle. 

Up in the air, Snape turned on his broomstick just in time to see 
something scarlet shoot past him, missing him by inches -- the next 
second, Harry had pulled out of the dive, his arm raised in triumph, the 
Snitch clasped in his hand. 

The stands erupted; it had to be a record, no one could ever remember 
the Snitch being caught so quickly. 

"Ron! Ron! Where are you? The game's over! Harry's won! We've won! 
Gryffindor is in the lead!" shrieked Hermione, dancing up and down on 
her seat and hugging Parvati Patil in the row in front. 

Harry jumped off his broom, a foot from the ground. He couldn't believe 
it. He'd done it -- the game was over; it had barely lasted five 
minutes. As Gryffindors came spilling onto the field, he saw Snape land 
nearby, white-faced and tight-lipped -- then Harry felt a hand on his 
shoulder and looked up into Dumbledore's smiling face. 

"Well done," said Dumbledore quietly, so that only Harry could hear. 
"Nice to see you haven't been brooding about that mirror... been keeping 
busy... excellent..." 

Snape spat bitterly on the ground. 

Harry left the locker room alone some time later, to take his Nimbus Two 
Thousand back to the broomshed. He couldn't ever remember feeling 

179



happier. He'd really done something to be proud of now -- no one could 
say he was just a famous name any more. The evening air had never 
smelled so sweet. He walked over the damp grass, reliving the last hour 
in his head, which was a happy blur: Gryffindors running to lift him 
onto their shoulders; Ron and Hermione in the distance, jumping up and 
down, Ron cheering through a heavy nosebleed. 

Harry had reached the shed. He leaned against the wooden door and looked 
up at Hogwarts, with its windows glowing red in the setting sun. 
Gryffindor in the lead. He'd done it, he'd shown Snape.... 

And speaking of Snape... 

A hooded figure came swiftly down the front steps of the castle. Clearly 
not wanting to be seen, it walked as fast as possible toward the 
forbidden forest. Harry's victory faded from his mind as he watched. He 
recognized the figure's prowling walk. Snape, sneaking into the forest 
while everyone else was at dinner -- what was going on? 

Harry jumped back on his Nimbus Two Thousand and took off. Gliding 
silently over the castle he saw Snape enter the forest at a run. He 
followed. 

The trees were so thick he couldn't see where Snape had gone. He flew in 
circles, lower and lower, brushing the top branches of trees until he 
heard voices. He glided toward them and landed noiselessly in a towering 
beech tree. 

He climbed carefully along one of the branches, holding tight to his 
broomstick, trying to see through the leaves. Below, in a shadowy 
clearing, stood Snape, but he wasn't alone. Quirrell was there, too. 
Harry couldn't make out the look on his face, but he was stuttering 
worse than ever. Harry strained to catch what they were saying. 

"... d-don't know why you wanted t-t-to meet here of all p-places, 
Severus..." 

"Oh, I thought we'd keep this private," said Snape, his voice icy. 
"Students aren't supposed to know about the Sorcerer's Stone, after 
all." 

Harry leaned forward. Quirrell was mumbling something. Snape interrupted 
him. 

180



"Have you found out how to get past that beast of Hagrid's yet?" 

"B-b-but Severus, I --" 

"You don't want me as your enemy, Quirrell," said Snape, taking a step 
toward him. 

"I-I don't know what you 

"You know perfectly well what I mean." 

An owl hooted loudly, and Harry nearly fell out of the tree. He steadied 
himself in time to hear Snape say, "-- your little bit of hocus-pocus. 
I'm waiting." 

"B-but I d-d-don't --" 

"Very well," Snape cut in. "We'll have another little chat soon, when 
you've had time to think things over and decided where your loyalties 
lie." 

He threw his cloak over his head and strode out of the clearing. It was 
almost dark now, but Harry could see Quirrell, standing quite still as 
though he was petrified. 

"Harry, where have you been?" Hermione squeaked. 

"We won! You won! We won!" shouted Ron, thumping Harry on the back. "And 
I gave Malfoy a black eye, and Neville tried to take on Crabbe and Goyle 
single-handed! He's still out cold but Madam Pomftey says he'll be all 
right - talk about showing Slytherin! Everyone's waiting for you in the 
common room, we're having a party, Fred and George stole some cakes and 
stuff from the kitchens." 

"Never mind that now," said Harry breathlessly. "Let's find an empty 
room, you wait 'til you hear this...." 

He made sure Peeves wasn't inside before shutting the door behind them, 
then he told them what he'd seen and heard. 

"So we were right, it is the Sorcerer's Stone, and Snape's trying to 
force Quirrell to help him get it. He asked if he knew how to get past 

181



Fluffy - and he said something about Quirrell's 'hocus pocuss-- I reckon 
there are other things guarding the stone apart from Fluffy, loads of 
enchantments, probably, and Quirrell would have done some anti-Dark Arts 
spell that Snape needs to break through --" 

"So you mean the Stone's only safe as long as Quirrell stands up to 
Snape?" said Hermione in alarm. 

"It'll be gone by next Tuesday," said Ron. 

CHAPTER FOURTEEN 

NORBERT THE NORWEGIAN RIDGEBACK 

Quirrell, however, must have been braver than they'd thought. In the 
weeks that followed he did seem to be getting paler and thinner, but it 
didn't look as though he'd cracked yet. 

Every time they passed the third-floor corridor, Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione would press their ears to the door to check that Fluffy was 
still growling inside. Snape was sweeping about in his usual bad temper, 
which surely meant that the Stone was still safe. Whenever Harry passed 
Quirrell these days he gave him an encouraging sort of smile, and Ron 
had started telling people off for laughing at Quirrell's stutter. 

Hermione, however, had more on her mind than the Sorcerer's Stone. She 
had started drawing up study schedules and colorcoding all her notes. 
Harry and Ron wouldn't have minded, but she kept nagging them to do the 
same. 

"Hermione, the exams are ages away." 

"Ten weeks," Hermione snapped. "That's not ages, that's like a second to 
Nicolas Flamel." 

"But we're not six hundred years old," Ron reminded her. "Anyway, what 
are you studying for, you already know it A." 

"What am I studying for? Are you crazy? You realize we need to pass 
these exams to get into the second year? They're very important, I 
should have started studying a month ago, I don't know what's gotten 
into me...." 

182



Unfortunately, the teachers seemed to be thinking along the same lines 
as Hermione. They piled so much homework on them that the Easter 
holidays weren't nearly as much fun as the Christmas ones. It was hard 
to relax with Hermione next to you reciting the twelve uses of dragon's 
blood or practicing wand movements. Moaning and yawning, Harry and Ron 
spent most of their free time in the library with her, trying to get 
through all their extra work. 

"I'll never remember this," Ron burst out one afternoon, throwing down 
his quill and looking longingly out of the library window. It was the 
first really fine day they'd had in months. The sky was a clear, 
forget-me-not blue, and there was a feeling in the air of summer coming. 

Harry, who was looking up "Dittany" in One Thousand Magical Herbs and 
Fungi, didn't look up until he heard Ron say, "Hagrid! What are you 
doing in the library?" 

Hagrid shuffled into view, hiding something behind his back. He looked 
very out of place in his moleskin overcoat. 

"Jus' lookin'," he said, in a shifty voice that got their interest at 
once. "An' what're you lot up ter?" He looked suddenly suspicious. "Yer 
not still lookin' fer Nicolas Flamel, are yeh?" "Oh, we found out who he 
is ages ago," said Ron impressively. "And we know what that dog's 
guarding, it's a Sorcerer's St --" 

"Shhhh!" Hagrid looked around quickly to see if anyone was listening. 
"Don' go shoutin' about it, what's the matter with yeh?" 

"There are a few things we wanted to ask you, as a matter of fact," said 
Harry, "about what's guarding the Stone apart from Fluffy --" 

"SHHHH!" said Hagrid again. "Listen - come an' see me later, I'm not 
promisin' I'll tell yeh anythin', mind, but don' go rabbitin' about it 
in here, students aren' s'pposed ter know. They'll think I've told yeh 
--" 

"See you later, then," said Harry. 

Hagrid shuffled off. 

"What was he hiding behind his back?" said Hermione thoughtfully. 

183



"Do you think it had anything to do with the Stone?" 

"I'm going to see what section he was in," said Ron, who'd had enough of 
working. He came back a minute later with a pile of books in his arms 
and slammed them down on the table. 

"Dragons!" he whispered. "Hagrid was looking up stuff about dragons! 
Look at these: Dragon Species of Great Britain and Ireland; From Egg to 
Inferno, A Dragon Keeper's Guide." 

"Hagrid's always wanted a dragon, he told me so the first time I ever 
met him, " said Harry. 

"But it's against our laws," said Ron. "Dragon breeding was outlawed by 
the Warlocks' Convention of 1709, everyone knows that. It's hard to stop 
Muggles from noticing us if we're keeping dragons in the back garden 
anyway, you can't tame dragons, it's dangerous. You should see the burns 
Charlie's got off wild ones in Romania." 

"But there aren't wild dragons in Britain?" said Harry. 

"Of course there are," said Ron. "Common Welsh Green and Hebridean 
Blacks. The Ministry of Magic has a job hushing them up, I can tell you. 
Our kind have to keep putting spells on Muggles who've spotted them, to 
make them forget." 

"So what on earths Hagrid up to?" said Hermione. 

When they knocked on the door of the gamekeeper's hut an hour later, 
they were surprised to see that all the curtains were closed. Hagrid 
called "Who is it?" before he let them in, and then shut the door 
quickly behind them. 

It was stifling hot inside. Even though it was such a warm day, there 
was a blazing fire in the grate. Hagrid made them tea and offered them 
stoat sandwiches, which they refused. 

"So -- yeh wanted to ask me somethin'?" 

"Yes," said Harry. There was no point beating around the bush. "We were 
wondering if you could tell us what's guarding the Sorcerer's Stone 
apart from Fluffy." 

184



Hagrid frowned at him.


"0' course I cant, he said. "Number one, I don' know meself. Number two,
yeh know too much already, so I wouldn' tell yeh if I could. That
Stone's here fer a good reason. It Was almost stolen outta Gringotts - I
s'ppose yeh've worked that out an' all? Beats me how yeh even know abou'
Fluffy."


"Oh, come on, Hagrid, you might not want to tell us, but you do know,
you know everything that goes on round here," said Hermione in a warm,
flattering voice. Hagrid's beard twitched and they could tell he was
smiling. "We only wondered who had done the guarding, really." Hermione
went on. "We wondered who Dumbledore had trusted enough to help him,
apart from you."


Hagrid's chest swelled at these last words. Harry and Ron beamed at
Hermione.


"Well, I don' s'pose it could hurt ter tell yeh that... let's see... he
borrowed Fluffy from me... then some o' the teachers did enchantments...
Professor Sprout -- Professor Flitwick -- Professor McGonagall --" he
ticked them off on his fingers, "Professor Quirrell -- an' Dumbledore
himself did somethin', o' course. Hang on, I've forgotten someone. Oh
yeah, Professor Snape."


"Snape?"


"Yeah -- yer not still on abou' that, are yeh? Look, Snape helped
protect the Stone, he's not about ter steal it."


Harry knew Ron and Hermione were thinking the same as he was. If Snape
had been in on protecting the Stone, it must have been easy to find out
how the other teachers had guarded it. He probably knew everything -
except, it seemed, Quirrell's spell and how to get past Fluffy.


"You're the only one who knows how to get past Fluffy. aren't you,
Hagrid?" said Harry anxiously. "And you wouldn't tell anyone, would you?
Not even one of the teachers?"


"Not a soul knows except me an' Dumbledore," said Hagrid proudly.


"Well, that's something," Harry muttered to the others. "Hagrid, can we


185



have a window open? I'm boiling." 

"Can't, Harry, sorry," said Hagrid. Harry noticed him glance at the 
fire. Harry looked at it, too. 

"Hagrid -- what's that?" 

But he already knew what it was. In the very heart of the fire, 
underneath the kettle, was a huge, black egg. 

"Ah," said Hagrid, fiddling nervously with his beard, "That's er..." 

"Where did you get it, Hagrid?" said Ron, crouching over the fire to get 
a closer look at the egg. "It must've cost you a fortune." 

"Won it," said Hagrid. "Las' night. I was down in the village havin' a 
few drinks an' got into a game o' cards with a stranger. Think he was 
quite glad ter get rid of it, ter be honest." 

"But what are you going to do with it when it's hatched?" said Hermione. 

"Well, I've bin doin' some readin' , said Hagrid, pulling a large book 
from under his pillow. "Got this outta the library -- Dragon Breeding 
for Pleasure and Profit -- it's a bit outta date, o' course, but it's 
all in here. Keep the egg in the fire, 'cause their mothers breathe on I 
em, see, an' when it hatches, feed it on a bucket o' brandy mixed with 
chicken blood every half hour. An' see here -- how ter recognize 
diff'rent eggs -- what I got there's a Norwegian Ridgeback. They're 
rare, them." 

He looked very pleased with himself, but Hermione didn't. 

"Hagrid, you live in a wooden house," she said. 

But Hagrid wasn't listening. He was humming merrily as he stoked the 
fire. 

So now they had something else to worry about: what might happen to 
Hagrid if anyone found out he was hiding an illegal dragon in his hut. 
"Wonder what it's like to have a peaceful life," Ron sighed, as evening 
after evening they struggled through all the extra homework they were 
getting. Hermione had now started making study schedules for Harry and 
Ron, too. It was driving them nuts. 

186



Then, one breakfast time, Hedwig brought Harry another note from Hagrid. 
He had written only two words: It's hatching. 

Ron wanted to skip Herbology and go straight down to the hut. Hermione 
wouldn't hear of it. 

"Hermione, how many times in our lives are we going to see a dragon 
hatching?" 

"We've got lessons, we'll get into trouble, and that's nothing to what 
Hagrid's going to be in when someone finds out what he's doing --" 

"Shut up!" Harry whispered. 

Malfoy was only a few feet away and he had stopped dead to listen. How 
much had he heard? Harry didn't like the look on Malfoy's face at all. 

Ron and Hermione argued all the way to Herbology and in the end, 
Hermione agreed to run down to Hagrid's with the other two during 
morning break. When the bell sounded from the castle at the end of their 
lesson, the three of them dropped their trowels at once and hurried 
through the grounds to the edge of the forest. Hagrid greeted them, 
looking flushed and excited. 

"It's nearly out." He ushered them inside. 

The egg was lying on the table. There were deep cracks in it. Something 
was moving inside; a funny clicking noise was coming from it. 

They all drew their chairs up to the table and watched with bated 
breath. 

All at once there was a scraping noise and the egg split open. The baby 
dragon flopped onto the table. It wasn't exactly pretty; Harry thought 
it looked like a crumpled, black umbrella. Its spiny wings were huge 
compared to its skinny jet body, it had a long snout with wide nostrils, 
the stubs of horns and bulging, orange eyes. 

It sneezed. A couple of sparks flew out of its snout. 

"Isn't he beautiful?" Hagrid murmured. He reached out a hand to stroke 
the dragon's head. It snapped at his fingers, showing pointed fangs. 

187



"Bless him, look, he knows his mommy!" said Hagrid.


"Hagrid," said Hermione, "how fast do Norwegian Ridgebacks grow,
exactly?"
Hagrid was about to answer when the color suddenly drained from his face


-- he leapt to his feet and ran to the window.
"What's the matter?"
"Someone was lookin' through the gap in the curtains -- it's a kid -


he's runnin' back up ter the school."


Harry bolted to the door and looked out. Even at a distance there was no
mistaking him.
Malfoy had seen the dragon.
Something about the smile lurking on Malfoy's face during the next week


made Harry, Ron, and Hermione very nervous. They spent most of their
free time in Hagrid's darkened hut, trying to reason with him.
"Just let him go," Harry urged. "Set him free."


"I can't," said Hagrid. "He's too little. He'd die."
They looked at the dragon. It had grown three times in length in just a
week. Smoke kept furling out of its nostrils. Hagrid hadn't been doing
his gamekeeping duties because the dragon was keeping him so busy. There
were empty brandy bottles and chicken feathers all over the floor.


"I've decided to call him Norbert," said Hagrid, looking at the dragon 
with misty eyes. "He really knows me now, watch. Norbert! Norbert! 
Where's Mommy?" 

"He's lost his marbles," Ron muttered in Harry's ear. 

"Hagrid," said Harry loudly, "give it two weeks and Norbert's going to 
be as long as your house. Malfoy could go to Dumbledore at any moment." 
Hagrid bit his lip. 

188



"I -- I know I can't keep him forever, but I can't jus' dump him, I 
can't." 

Harry suddenly turned to Ron. Charlie, he said. 

"You're losing it, too," said Ron. "I'm Ron, remember?" 

"No -- Charlie -- your brother, Charlie. In Romania. Studying dragons. 
We could send Norbert to him. Charlie can take care of him and then put 
him back in the wild!" 

"Brilliant!" said Ron. "How about it, Hagrid?" 

And in the end, Hagrid agreed that they could send -an owl to Charlie to 
ask him. 

The following week dragged by. Wednesday night found Hermione and Harry 
sitting alone in the common room, long after everyone else had gone to 
bed. The clock on the wall had just 

chimed midnight when the portrait hole burst open. Ron appeared out of 
nowhere as he pulled off Harry's invisibility cloak. He had been down at 
Hagrid's hut, helping him feed Norbert, who was now eating dead rats by 
the crate. 

"It bit me!" he said, showing them his hand, which was wrapped in a 
bloody handkerchief. "I'm not going to be able to hold a quill for a 
week. I tell you, that dragon's the most horrible animal I've ever met, 
but the way Hagrid goes on about it, you'd think it was a fluffy little 
bunny rabbit. When it bit me he told me off for frightening it. And when 
I left, he was singing it a lullaby." 

There was a tap on the dark window. 

"It's Hedwig!" said Harry, hurrying to let her in. "She'll have 
Charlie's answer!" 

The three of them put their heads together to read the note. 

Dear Ron, 

How are you? Thanks for the letter -- I'd be glad to take the Norwegian 
Ridgeback, but it won't be easy getting him here. I think the best thing 

189



will be to send him over with some friends of mine who are coming to 
visit me next week. Trouble is, they mustn't be seen carrying an illegal 
dragon. 

Could you get the Ridgeback up the tallest tower at midnight on 
Saturday? They can meet you there and take him away while it's still 
dark. 

Send me an answer as soon as possible. 

Love, 

Charlie 

They looked at one another. 

"We've got the invisibility cloak," said Harry. "It shouldn't be too 
difficult -- I think the cloaks big enough to cover two of us and 
Norbert." 

It was a mark of how bad the last week had been that the other two 
agreed with him. Anything to get rid of Norbert -- and Malfoy. 

There was a hitch. By the next morning, Ron's bitten hand had swollen to 
twice its usual size. He didn't know whether it was safe to go to Madam 
Pomfrey -- would she recognize a dragon bite? By the afternoon, though, 
he had no choice. The cut had turned a nasty shade of green. It looked 
as if Norbert's fangs were poisonous. 

Harry and Hermione rushed up to the hospital wing at the end of the day 
to find Ron in a terrible state in bed. 

"It's not just my hand," he whispered, "although that feels like it's 
about to fall off. Malfoy told Madam Pomfrey he wanted to borrow one of 
my books so he could come and have a good laugh at me. He kept 
threatening to tell her what really bit me -- I've told her it was a 
dog, but I don't think she believes me -I shouldn't have hit him at the 
Quidditch match, that's why he's doing this." 

Harry and Hermione tried to calm Ron down. 

"It'll all be over at midnight on Saturday," said Hermione, but this 
didn't soothe Ron at all. On the contrary, he sat bolt upright and broke 

190



into a sweat. 

"Midnight on Saturday!" he said in a hoarse voice. "Oh no oh no -- I've 
just remembered -- Charlie's letter was in that book Malfoy took, he's 
going to know we're getting rid of Norbert." 

Harry and Hermione didn't get a chance to answer. Madam Pomfrey came 
over at that moment and made them leave, saying Ron needed sleep. 

"It's too late to change the plan now," Harry told Hermione. "We haven't 
got time to send Charlie another owl, and this could be our only chance 
to get rid of Norbert. We'll have to risk it. And we have got the 
invisibility cloak, Malfoy doesn't know about that." 

They found Fang, the boarhound, sitting outside with a bandaged tail 
when they went to tell Hagrid, who opened a window to talk to them. 

"I won't let you in," he puffed. "Norbert's at a tricky stage -- nothin' 
I can't handle." 

When they told him about Charlie's letter, his eyes filled with tears, 
although that might have been because Norbert had just bitten him on the 
leg. 

"Aargh! It's all right, he only got my boot -- jus' playin' -- he's only 
a baby, after all." 

The baby banged its tail on the wall, making the windows rattle. Harry 
and Hermione walked back to the castle feeling Saturday couldn't come 
quickly enough. 

They would have felt sorry for Hagrid when the time came for him to say 
good-bye to Norbert if they hadn't been so worried about what they had 
to do. It was a very dark, cloudy night, and they were a bit late 
arriving at Hagrid's hut because they'd had to wait for Peeves to get 
out of their way in the entrance hall, where he'd been playing tennis 
against the wall. Hagrid had Norbert packed and ready in a large crate. 

"He's got lots o' rats an' some brandy fer the journey," said Hagrid in 
a muffled voice. "An' I've packed his teddy bear in case he gets 
lonely." 

From inside the crate came ripping noises that sounded to Harry as 

191



though the teddy was having his head torn off.


"Bye-bye, Norbert!" Hagrid sobbed, as Harry and Hermione covered the
crate with the invisibility cloak and stepped underneath it themselves.
"Mommy will never forget you!"


How they managed to get the crate back up to the castle, they never
knew. Midnight ticked nearer as they heaved Norbert up the marble
staircase in the entrance hall and along the dark corridors. UP another
staircase, then another -- even one of Harry's shortcuts didn't make the
work much easier.


"Nearly there!" Harry panted as they reached the corridor beneath the
tallest tower.


Then a sudden movement ahead of them made them almost drop the crate.
Forgetting that they were already invisible, they shrank into the
shadows, staring at the dark outlines of two people grappling with each
other ten feet away. A lamp flared.


Professor McGonagall, in a tartan bathrobe and a hair net, had Malfoy by
the ear.


"Detention!" she shouted. "And twenty points from Slytherin! Wandering
around in the middle of the night, how dare you --"


"You don't understand, Professor. Harry Potter's coming -- he's got a
dragon!"


"What utter rubbish! How dare you tell such lies! Come on -- I shall see
Professor Snape about you, Malfoy!"


The steep spiral staircase up to the top of the tower seemed the easiest
thing in the world after that. Not until they'd stepped out into the
cold night air did they throw off the cloak, glad to be able to breathe
properly again. Hermione did a sort of jig.


"Malfoy's got detention! I could sing!"


"Don't," Harry advised her.


Chuckling about Malfoy, they waited, Norbert thrashing about in his
crate. About ten minutes later, four broomsticks came swooping down out


192



of the darkness. 

Charlie's friends were a cheery lot. They showed Harry and Hermione the 
harness they'd rigged up, so they could suspend Norbert between them. 
They all helped buckle Norbert safely into it and then Harry and 
Hermione shook hands with the others and thanked them very much. 

At last, Norbert was going... going... gone. 

They slipped back down the spiral staircase, their hearts as light as 
their hands, now that Norbert was off them. No more dragon -- Malfoy in 
detention -- what could spoil their happiness? 

The answer to that was waiting at the foot of the stairs. As they 
stepped into the corridor, Filch's face loomed suddenly out of the 
darkness. 

"Well, well, well," he whispered, "we are in trouble." 

They'd left the invisibility cloak on top of the tower. 

CHAPTER FIFTEEN 

THE FORIBIDDEN FOREST 

Things couldn't have been worse. 

Filch took them down to Professor McGonagall's study on the first floor, 
where they sat and waited without saying a word to each other. Hermione 
was trembling. Excuses, alibis, and wild cover- up stories chased each 
other around Harry's brain, each more feeble than the last. He couldn't 
see how they were going to get out of trouble this time. They were 
cornered. How could they have been so stupid as to forget the cloak? 
There was no reason on earth that Professor McGonagall would accept for 
their being out of bed and creeping around the school in the dead of 
night, let alone being up the tallest astronomy tower, which was 
out-of-bounds except for classes. Add Norbert and the invisibility 
cloak, and they might as well be packing their bags already. 

Had Harry thought that things couldn't have been worse? He was wrong. 
When Professor McGonagall appeared, she was leading Neville. 

193



"Harry!" Neville burst Out, the moment he saw the other two. "I was 
trying to find you to warn you, I heard Malfoy saying he was going to 
catch you, he said you had a drag --" 

Harry shook his head violently to shut Neville up, but Professor 
McGonagall had seen. She looked more likely to breathe fire than Norbert 
as she towered over the three of them. 

"I would never have believed it of any of you. Mr. Filch says you were 
up in the astronomy tower. It's one o'clock in the morning. Explain 
yourselves." 

It was the first time Hermione had ever failed to answer a teacher's 
question. She was staring at her slippers, as still as a statue. 

"I think I've got a good idea of what's been going on," said Professor 
McGonagall. "It doesn't take a genius to work it out. You fed Draco 
Malfoy some cock-and-bull story about a dragon, trying to get him out of 
bed and into trouble. I've already caught him. I suppose you think it's 
funny that Longbottom here heard the story and believed it, too?" 

Harry caught Neville's eye and tried to tell him without words that this 
wasn't true, because Neville was looking stunned and hurt. Poor, 
blundering Neville -- Harry knew what it must have cost him to try and 
find them in the dark, to warn them. 

"I'm disgusted," said Professor McGonagall. "Four students out of bed in 
one night! I've never heard of such a thing before! You, Miss Granger, I 
thought you had more sense. As for you, Mr. Potter, I thought Gryffindor 
meant more to you than this. All three of you will receive detentions -
yes, you too, Mr. Longbottom, nothing gives you the right to walk around 
school at night, especially these days, it's very dangerous -- and fifty 
points will be taken from Gryffindor." 

"Fifty?" Harry gasped -- they would lose the lead, the lead he'd won in 
the last Quidditch match. 

"Fifty points each," said Professor McGonagall, breathing heavily 
through her long, pointed nose. 

"Professor -- please 

"You can't --" 

194



"Don't tell me what I can and can't do, Potter. Now get back to bed, all 
of you. I've never been more ashamed of Gryffindor students." 

A hundred and fifty points lost. That put Gryffindor in last place. In 
one night, they'd ruined any chance Gryffindor had had for the house 
cup. Harry felt as though the bottom had dropped out of his stomach. How 
could they ever make up for this? 

Harry didn't sleep all night. He could hear Neville sobbing into his 
pillow for what seemed like hours. Harry couldn't think of anything to 
say to comfort him. He knew Neville, like himself, was dreading the 
dawn. What would happen when the rest of Gryffindor found out what 
they'd done? 

At first, Gryffindors passing the giant hourglasses that recorded the 
house points the next day thought there'd been a mistake. How could they 
suddenly have a hundred and fifty points fewer than yesterday? And then 
the story started to spread: Harry Potter, the famous Harry Potter, 
their hero of two Quidditch matches, had lo st them all those points, 
him and a couple of other stupid first years. 

From being one of the most popular and admired people at the school, 
Harry was suddenly the most hated. Even Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs 
turned on him, because everyone had been longing to see Slytherin lose 
the house cup. Everywhere Harry went, people pointed and didn't trouble 
to lower their voices as they insulted him. Slytherins, on the other 
hand, clapped as he walked past them, whistling and cheering, "Thanks 
Potter, we owe you one!" 

Only Ron stood by him. 

"They'll all forget this in a few weeks. Fred and George have lost loads 
of points in all the time they've been here, and people still like 
them." 

"They've never lost a hundred and fifty points in one go, though, have 
they?" said Harry miserably. 

"Well -- no," Ron admitted. 

It was a bit late to repair the damage, but Harry swore to himself not 
to meddle in things that weren't his business from now on. He'd had it 

195



with sneaking around and spying. He felt so ashamed of himself that he 
went to Wood and offered to resign from the Quidditch team. 

"Resign?" Wood thundered. "What good'll that do? How are we going to get 
any points back if we can't win at Quidditch?" 

But even Quidditch had lost its fun. The rest of the team wouldn't speak 
to Harry during practice, and if they had to speak about him, they 
called him "the Seeker." 

Hermione and Neville were suffering, too. They didn't have as bad a time 
as Harry, because they weren't as well-known, but nobody would speak to 
them, either. Hermione had stopped drawing attention to herself in 
class, keeping her head down and working in silence. 

Harry was almost glad that the exams weren't far away. All the studying 
he had to do kept his mind off his misery. He, Ron, and Hermione kept to 
themselves, working late into the night, trying to remember the 
ingredients in complicated potions, learn charms and spells by heart, 
memorize the dates of magical discoveries and goblin rebellions.... 

Then, about a week before the exams were due to start, Harry's new 
resolution not to interfere in anything that didn't concern him was put 
to an unexpected test. Walking back from the library on his own one 
afternoon, he heard somebody whimpering from a classroom up ahead. As he 
drew closer, he heard Quirrell's voice. 

"No -- no -- not again, please --" 

It sounded as though someone was threatening him. Harry moved closer. 

"All right -- all right --" he heard Quirrell sob. 

Next second, Quirrell came hurrying out of the classroom straightening 
his turban. He was pale and looked as though he was about to cry. He 
strode out of sight; Harry didn't think Quirrell had even noticed him. 
He waited until Quirrell's footsteps had disappeared, then peered into 
the classroom. It was empty, but a door stood ajar at the other end. 
Harry was halfway toward it before he remembered what he'd promised 
himself about not meddling. 

All the same, he'd have gambled twelve Sorcerer's Stones that Snape had 
just left the room, and from what Harry had just heard, Snape would be 

196



walking with a new spring in his step -- Quirrell seemed to have given 
in at last. 

Harry went back to the library, where Hermione was testing Ron on 
Astronomy. Harry told them what he'd heard. 

"Snape's done it, then!" said Ron. "If Quirrell's told him how to break 
his Anti-Dark Force spell --" 

"There's still Fluffy, though," said Hermione. 

"Maybe Snape's found out how to get past him without asking Hagrid," 
said Ron, looking up at the thousands of books surrounding them. "I bet 
there's a book somewhere in here telling you how to get past a giant 
three-headed dog. So what do we do, Harry?" 

The light of adventure was kindling again in Ron's eyes, but Hermione 
answered before Harry could. 

"Go to Dumbledore. That's what we should have done ages ago. If we try 
anything ourselves we'll be thrown out for sure." 

"But we've got no proof!" said Harry. "Quirrell's too scared to back us 
up. Snape's only got to say he doesn't know how the troll got in at 
Halloween and that he was nowhere near the third floor -- who do you 
think they'll believe, him or us? It's not exactly a secret we hate him, 
Dumbledore'll think we made it up to get him sacked. Filch wouldn't help 
us if his life depended on it, he's too friendly with Snape, and the 
more students get thrown out, the better, he'll think. And don't forget, 
we're not supposed to know about the Stone or Fluffy. That'll take a lot 
of explaining." 

Hermione looked convinced, but Ron didn't. 

"If we just do a bit of poking around --" 

"No," said Harry flatly, "we've done enough poking around." 

He pulled a map of Jupiter toward him and started to learn the names of 
its moons. 

The following morning, notes were delivered to Harry, Hermione, and 
Neville at the breakfast table. They were all the same: 

197



Your detention will take place at eleven o'clock tonight. Meet Mr. Filch 
in the entrance hall. 

Professor McGonagall Harry had forgotten they still had detentions to do 
in the furor over the points they'd lost. He half expected Hermione to 
complain that this was a whole night of studying lost, but she didn't 
say a word. Like Harry, she felt they deserved what they'd got. 

At eleven o'clock that night, they said good-bye to Ron in the common 
room and went down to the entrance hall with Neville. Filch was already 
there -- and so was Malfoy. Harry had also forgotten that Malfoy had 
gotten a detention, too. 

"Follow me," said Filch, lighting a lamp and leading them outside. 

I bet you'll think twice about breaking a school rule again, won't you, 
eh?" he said, leering at them. "Oh yes... hard work and pain are the 
best teachers if you ask me.... It's just a pity they let the old 
punishments die out... hang you by your wrists from the ceiling for a 
few days, I've got the chains still in my office, keep 'em well oiled in 
case they're ever needed.... Right, off we go, and don't think of 
running off, now, it'll be worse for you if you do." 

They marched off across the dark grounds. Neville kept sniffing. Harry 
wondered what their punishment was going to be. It must be something 
really horrible, or Filch wouldn't be sounding so delighted. 

The moon was bright, but clouds scudding across it kept throwing them 
into darkness. Ahead, Harry could see the lighted windows of Hagrid's 
hut. Then they heard a distant shout. 

"Is that you, Filch? Hurry up, I want ter get started." 

Harry's heart rose; if they were going to be working with Hagrid it 
wouldn't be so bad. His relief must have showed in his -face, because 
Filch said, "I suppose you think you'll be enjoying yourself with that 
oaf? Well, think again, boy -- it's into the forest you're going and I'm 
much mistaken if you'll all come out in one piece." 

At this, Neville let out a little moan, and Malfoy stopped dead in his 
tracks. 

198



"The forest?" he repeated, and he didn't sound quite as cool as usual. 
"We can't go in there at night -- there's all sorts of things in there 
-- werewolves, I heard." 

Neville clutched the sleeve of Harry's robe and made a choking noise. 

"That's your problem, isn't it?" said Filch, his voice cracking with 
glee. "Should've thought of them werewolves before you got in trouble, 
shouldn't you?" 

Hagrid came striding toward them out of the dark, Fang at his heel. He 
was carrying his large crossbow, and a quiver of arrows hung over his 
shoulder. 

"Abou' time," he said. "I bin waitin' fer half an hour already. All 
right, Harry, Hermione?" 

"I shouldn't be too friendly to them, Hagrid," said Filch coldly, 
they're here to be punished, after all." 

"That's why yer late, is it?" said Hagrid, frowning at Filch. "Bin 
lecturin' them, eh? 'Snot your place ter do that. Yeh've done yer bit, 
I'll take over from here." 

"I'll be back at dawn," said Filch, "for what's left of them," he added 
nastily, and he turned and started back toward the castle, his lamp 
bobbing away in the darkness. 

Malfoy now turned to Hagrid. 

"I'm not going in that forest, he said, and Harry was pleased to hear 
the note of panic in his voice. 

"Yeh are if yeh want ter stay at Hogwarts," said Hagrid fiercely. 
"Yeh've done wrong an' now yehve got ter pay fer it." 

"But this is servant stuff, it's not for students to do. I thought we'd 
be copying lines or something, if my father knew I was doing this, he'd 

tell yer that's how it is at Hogwarts," Hagrid growled. "Copyin' lines! 
What good's that ter anyone? Yeh'll do summat useful or Yeh'll get out. 
If yeh think yer father'd rather you were expelled, then get back off 
ter the castle an' pack. Go on"' 

199



Malfoy didn't move. He looked at Hagrid furiously, but then dropped his 
gaze. 

"Right then," said Hagrid, "now, listen carefully, 'cause it's dangerous 
what we're gonna do tonight, an' I don' want no one takin' risks. Follow 
me over here a moment." 

He led them to the very edge of the forest. Holding his lamp up high, he 
pointed down a narrow, winding earth track that disappeared into the 
thick black trees. A light breeze lifted their hair as they looked into 
the forest. 

"Look there," said Hagrid, "see that stuff shinin' on the ground? 
Silvery stuff? That's unicorn blood. There's a unicorn in there bin hurt 
badly by summat. This is the second time in a week. I found one dead 
last Wednesday. We're gonna try an' find the poor thing. We might have 
ter put it out of its misery." 

"And what if whatever hurt the unicorn finds us first?" said Malfoy, 
unable to keep the fear out of his voice. 

"There's nothin' that lives in the forest that'll hurt yeh if yer with 
me or Fang," said Hagrid. "An' keep ter the path. Right, now, we're 
gonna split inter two parties an' follow the trail in diff'rent 
directions. There's blood all over the place, it must've bin staggerin' 
around since last night at least." 

"I want Fang," said Malfoy quickly, looking at Fang's long teeth. 

"All right, but I warn yeh, he's a coward," said Hagrid. " So me, Harry, 
an' Hermione'll go one way an' Draco, Neville, an' Fang'll go the other. 
Now, if any of us finds the unicorn, we'll send up green sparks, right? 
Get yer wands out an' practice now -- that's it -- an' if anyone gets in 
trouble, send up red sparks, an' we'll all come an' find yeh -- so, be 
careful -- let's go." 

The forest was black and silent. A little way into it they reached a 
fork in the earth path, and Harry, Hermione, and Hagrid took the left 
path while Malfoy, Neville, and Fang took the right. 

They walked in silence, their eyes on the ground. Every now and then a 
ray of moonlight through the branches above lit a spot of silver-blue 

200



blood on the fallen leaves. 

Harry saw that Hagrid looked very worried. 

"Could a werewolf be killing the unicorns?" Harry asked. 

"Not fast enough," said Hagrid. "It's not easy ter catch a unicorn, 
they're powerful magic creatures. I never knew one ter be hurt before." 

They walked past a mossy tree stump. Harry could hear running water; 
there must be a stream somewhere close by. There were still spots of 
unicorn blood here and there along the winding path. 

"You all right, Hermione?" Hagrid whispered. "Don' worry, it can't've 
gone far if it's this badly hurt, an' then we'll be able ter -- GET 
BEHIND THAT TREE!" 

Hagrid seized Harry and Hermione and hoisted them off the path behind a 
towering oak. He pulled out an arrow and fitted it into his crossbow, 
raising it, ready to fire. The three of them listened. Something was 
slithering over dead leaves nearby: it sounded like a cloak trailing 
along the ground. Hagrid was squinting up the dark path, but after a few 
seconds, the sound faded away. 

"I knew it, " he murmured. "There's summat in here that shouldn' be." 

"A werewolf?" Harry suggested. 

"That wasn' no werewolf an' it wasn' no unicorn, neither," said Hagrid 
grimly. "Right, follow me, but careful, now." 

They walked more slowly, ears straining for the faintest sound. 
Suddenly, in a clearing ahead, something definitely moved. 

"Who's there?" Hagrid called. "Show yerself -- I'm armed!" 

And into the clearing came -- was it a man, or a horse? To the waist, a 
man, with red hair and beard, but below that was a horse's gleaming 
chestnut body with a long, reddish tail. Harry and Hermione's jaws 
dropped. 

"Oh, it's you, Ronan," said Hagrid in relief. "How are yeh?" 

201



He walked forward and shook the centaur's hand.


"Good evening to you, Hagrid," said Ronan. He had a deep, sorrowful
voice. "Were you going to shoot me?"
"Can't be too careful, Ronan," said Hagrid, patting his crossbow.


"There's summat bad loose in this forest. This is Harry Potter an' 
Hermione Granger, by the way. Students up at the school. An' this is 
Ronan, you two. He's a centaur.)) 

"We'd noticed," said Hermione faintly. 

"Good evening," said Ronan. "Students, are you? And do you learn much,
up at the school?"
"Erm --"
"A bit," said Hermione timidly.
"A bit. Well, that's something." Ronan sighed. He flung back his head


and stared at the sky. "Mars is bright tonight."


"Yeah," said Hagrid, glancing up, too. "Listen, I'm glad we've run inter
yeh, Ronan, 'cause there's a unicorn bin hurt -- you seen anythin'?"
Ronan didn't answer immediately. He stared unblinkingly upward, then


sighed again.


"Always the innocent are the first victims," he said. "So it has been
for ages past, so it is now."
"Yeah," said Hagrid, "but have yeh seen anythin', Ronan? Anythin'


unusual?"


"Mars is bright tonight," Ronan repeated, while Hagrid watched him
impatiently. "Unusually bright."
"Yeah, but I was meanin' anythin' unusual a bit nearer home, said


Hagrid. "So yeh haven't noticed anythin' strange?"
Yet again, Ronan took a while to answer. At last, he said, "The forest
hides many secrets."


202



A movement in the trees behind Ronan made Hagrid raise his bow again, 
but it was only a second centaur, black-haired and -bodied and 
wilder-looking than Ronan. 

"Hullo, Bane," said Hagrid. "All right?" 

"Good evening, Hagrid, I hope you are well?" 

"Well enough. Look, I've jus' bin askin' Ronan, you seen anythin' odd in 
here lately? There's a unicorn bin injured -- would yeh know anythin' 
about it?" 

Bane walked over to stand next to Ronan. He looked skyward. "Mars is 
bright tonight," he said simply. 

"We've heard," said Hagrid grumpily. "Well, if either of you do see 
anythin', let me know, won't yeh? We'll be off, then." 

Harry and Hermione followed him out of the clearing, staring over their 
shoulders at Ronan and Bane until the trees blocked their view. 

"Never," said Hagrid irritably, "try an' get a straight answer out of a 
centaur. Ruddy stargazers. Not interested in anythin' closer'n the 
moon." 

"Are there many of them in here?" asked Hermione. 

"Oh, a fair few... Keep themselves to themselves mostly, but they're 
good enough about turnin' up if ever I want a word. They're deep, mind, 
centaurs... they know things... jus' don' let on much." 

"D'you think that was a centaur we heard earlier?" said Harry. 

"Did that sound like hooves to you? Nah, if yeh ask me, that was what's 
bin killin' the unicorns -- never heard anythin' like it before." 

They walked on through the dense, dark trees. Harry kept looking 
nervously over his shoulder. He had the nasty feeling they were being 
watched. He was very glad they had Hagrid and his crossbow with them. 
They had just passed a bend in the path when Hermione grabbed Hagrid's 
arm. 

"Hagrid! Look! Red sparks, the others are in trouble!" 

203



"You two wait here!" Hagrid shouted. "Stay on the path, I'll come back 
for yeh!" 

They heard him crashing away through the undergrowth and stood looking 
at each other, very scared, until they couldn't hear anything but the 
rustling of leaves around them. 

"You don't think they've been hurt, do you?" whispered Hermione. 

"I don't care if Malfoy has, but if something's got Neville... it's our 
fault he's here in the first place." 

The minutes dragged by. Their ears seemed sharper than usual. Harry's 
seemed to be picking up every sigh of the wind, every cracking twig. 
What was going on? Where were the others? 

At last, a great crunching noise announced Hagrid's return. Malfoy, 
Neville, and Fang were with him. Hagrid was fuming. Malfoy, it seemed, 
had sneaked up behind Neville and grabbed him as a joke. Neville had 
panicked and sent up the sparks. 

"We'll be lucky ter catch anythin' now, with the racket you two were 
makin'. Right, we're changin' groups -- Neville, you stay with me an' 
Hermione, Harry, you go with Fang an' this idiot. I'm sorry," Hagrid 
added in a whisper to Harry, "but he'll have a harder time frightenin' 
you, an' we've gotta get this done." 

So Harry set off into the heart of the forest with Malfoy and Fang. They 
walked for nearly half an hour, deeper and deeper into the forest, until 
the path became almost impossible to follow because the trees were so 
thick. Harry thought the blood seemed to be getting thicker. There were 
splashes on the roots of a tree, as though the poor creature had been 
thrashing around in pain close by. Harry could see a clearing ahead, 
through the tangled branches of an ancient oak. 

"Look --" he murmured, holding out his arm to stop Malfoy. 

Something bright white was gleaming on the ground. They inched closer. 

It was the unicorn all right, and it was dead. Harry had never seen 
anything so beautiful and sad. Its long, slender legs were stuck out at 
odd angles where it had fallen and its mane was spread pearly-white on 

204



the dark leaves. 

Harry had taken one step toward it when a slithering sound made him 
freeze where he stood. A bush on the edge of the clearing quivered.... 
Then, out of the shadows, a hooded figure came crawling across the 
ground like some stalking beast. Harry, Malfoy, and Fang stood 
transfixed. The cloaked figure reached the unicorn, lowered its head 
over the wound in the animal's side, and began to drink its blood. 

"AAAAAAAAAARGH!" 

Malfoy let out a terrible scream and bolted -- so did Fang. The hooded 
figure raised its head and looked right at Harry -- unicorn blood was 
dribbling down its front. It got to its feet and came swiftly toward 
Harry -- he couldn't move for fear. 

Then a pain like he'd never felt before pierced his head; it was as 
though his scar were on fire. Half blinded, he staggered backward. He 
heard hooves behind him, galloping, and something jumped clean over 
Harry, charging at the figure. 

The pain in Harry's head was so bad he fell to his knees. It took a 
minute or two to pass. When he looked up, the figure had gone. A centaur 
was standing over him, not Ronan or Bane; this one looked younger; he 
had white-blond hair and a palomino body. 

"Are you all right?" said the centaur, pulling Harry to his feet. 

"Yes -- thank you -- what was that?" 

The centaur didn't answer. He had astonishingly blue eyes, like pale 
sapphires. He looked carefully at Harry, his eyes lingering on the scar 
that stood out, livid, on Harry's forehead. 

"You are the Potter boy," he said. "You had better get back to Hagrid. 
The forest is not safe at this time -- especially for you. Can you ride? 
It will be quicker this way. 

"My name is Firenze," he added, as he lowered himself on to his front 
legs so that Harry could clamber onto his back. 

There was suddenly a sound of more galloping from the other side of the 
clearing. Ronan and Bane came bursting through the trees, their flanks 

205



heaving and sweaty. 

"Firenze!" Bane thundered. "What are you doing? You have a human on your 
back! Have you no shame? Are you a common mule?" 

"Do you realize who this is?" said Firenze. "This is the Potter boy. The 
quicker he leaves this forest, the better." 

"What have you been telling him?" growled Bane. "Remember, Firenze, we 
are sworn not to set ourselves against the heavens. Have we not read 
what is to come in the movements of the planets?" 

Ronan pawed the ground nervously. "I'm sure Firenze thought he was 
acting for the best, " he said in his gloomy voice. 

Bane kicked his back legs in anger. 

"For the best! What is that to do with us? Centaurs are concerned with 
what has been foretold! It is not our business to run around like 
donkeys after stray humans in our forest!" 

Firenze suddenly reared on to his hind legs in anger, so that Harry had 
to grab his shoulders to stay on. 

"Do you not see that unicorn?" Firenze bellowed at Bane. "Do you not 
understand why it was killed? Or have the planets not let you in on that 
secret? I set myself against what is lurking in this forest, Bane, yes, 
with humans alongside me if I must." 

And Firenze whisked around; with Harry clutching on as best he could, 
they plunged off into the trees, leaving Ronan and Bane behind them. 

Harry didn't have a clue what was going on. 

"Why's Bane so angry?" he asked. "What was that thing you saved me from, 
anyway?" 

Firenze slowed to a walk, warned Harry to keep his head bowed in case of 
low-hanging branches, but did not answer Harry's question. They made 
their way through the trees in silence for so long that Harry thought 
Firenze didn't want to talk to him anymore. They were passing through a 
particularly dense patch of trees, however, when Firenze suddenly 
stopped. 

206



"Harry Potter, do you know what unicorn blood is used -for?" 

"No," said Harry, startled by the odd question. "We've only used the 
horn and tail hair in Potions." 

"That is because it is a monstrous thing, to slay a unicorn," said 
Firenze. "Only one who has nothing to lose, and everything to gain, 
would commit such a crime. The blood of a unicorn will keep you alive, 
even if you are an inch from death, but at a terrible price. You have 
slain something pure and defenseless to save yourself, and you will have 
but a half-life, a cursed life, from the moment the blood touches your 
lips." 

Harry stared at the back of Firenze's head, which was dappled silver in 
the moonlight. 

"But who'd be that desperate?" he wondered aloud. "If you're going to be 
cursed forever, deaths better, isn't it?" 

"It is," Firenze agreed, "unless all you need is to stay alive long 
enough to drink something else -- something that will bring you back to 
full strength and power -- something that will mean you can never die. 
Mr. Potter, do you know what is hidden in the school at this very 
moment?" 

"The Sorcerer's Stone! Of course -- the Elixir of Life! But I don't 
understand who --" 

"Can you think of nobody who has waited many years to return to power, 
who has clung to life, awaiting their chance?" 

It was as though an iron fist had clenched suddenly around Harry's 
heart. Over the rustling of the trees, he seemed to hear once more what 
Hagrid had told him on the night they had met: "Some say he died. 
Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enough human left in him to 
die." 

"Do you mean," Harry croaked, "that was Vol-" 

"Harry! Harry, are you all right?" 

Hermione was running toward them down the path, Hagrid puffing along 

207



behind her. 

"I'm fine," said Harry, hardly knowing what he was saying. "The 
unicorn's dead, Hagrid, it's in that clearing back there." 

"This is where I leave you," Firenze murmured as Hagrid hurried off to 
examine the unicorn. "You are safe now." 

Harry slid off his back. 

"Good luck, Harry Potter," said Firenze. "The planets have been read 
wrongly before now, even by centaurs. I hope this is one of those 
times." 

He turned and cantered back into the depths of the forest, leaving Harry 
shivering behind him. 

Ron had fallen asleep in the dark common room, waiting for them to 
return. He shouted something about Quidditch fouls when Harry roughly 
shook him awake. In a matter of seconds, though, he was wide-eyed as 
Harry began to tell him and Hermione what had happened in the forest. 

Harry couldn't sit down. He paced up and down in front of the fire. He 
was still shaking. 

"Snape wants the stone for Voldemort... and Voldemort's waiting in the 
forest... and all this time we thought Snape just wanted to get 
rich...." 

"Stop saying the name!" said Ron in a terrified whisper, as if he 
thought Voldemort could hear them. 

Harry wasn't listening. 

"Firenze saved me, but he shouldn't have done so.... Bane was furious... 
he was talking about interfering with what the planets say is going to 
happen.... They must show that Voldemort's coming back.... Bane thinks 
Firenze should have let Voldemort kill me.... I suppose that's written 
in the stars as well." 

"Will you stop saying the name!" Ron hissed. 

"So all I've got to wait for now is Snape to steal the Stone," Harry 

208



went on feverishly, "then Voldemort will be able to come and finish me 
off... Well, I suppose Bane'll be happy." 

Hermione looked very frightened, but she had a word of comfort. 

"Harry, everyone says Dumbledore's the only one You-Know-Who was ever 
afraid of With Dumbledore around, You-Know-Who won't touch you. Anyway, 
who says the centaurs are right? It sounds like fortune-telling to me, 
and Professor McGonagall says that's a very imprecise branch of magic." 

The sky had turned light before they stopped talking. They went to bed 
exhausted, their throats sore. But the night's surprises weren't over. 

When Harry pulled back his sheets, he found his invisibility cloak 
folded neatly underneath them. There was a note pinned to it: 

Just in case. 

CHAPTER SIXTEEN 

THROUGH THE TRAPDOOR 

In years to come, Harry would never quite remember how he had managed to 
get through his exams when he half expected Voldemort to come bursting 
through the door at any moment. Yet the days crept by, and there could 
be no doubt that Fluffy was still alive and well behind the locked door. 

It was sweltering hot, especially in the large classroom where they did 
their written papers. They had been given special, new quills for the 
exams, which had been bewitched with an AntiCheating spell. 

They had practical exams as well. Professor Flitwick called them one by 
one into his class to see if they could make a pineapple tapdance across 
a desk. Professor McGonagall watched them turn a mouse into a snuffbox 
-- points were given for how pretty the snuffbox was, but taken away if 
it had whiskers. Snape made them all nervous, breathing down their necks 
while they tried to remember how to make a Forgetfulness potion. 

Harry did the best he could, trying to ignore the stabbing pains in his 
forehead, which had been bothering him ever since his trip into the 
forest. Neville thought Harry had a bad case of exam nerves because 
Harry couldn't sleep, but the truth was that Harry kept being woken by 

209



his old nightmare, except that it was now worse than ever because there 
was a hooded figure dripping blood in it. 

Maybe it was because they hadn't seen what Harry had seen in the forest, 
or because they didn't have scars burning on their foreheads, but Ron 
and Hermione didn't seem as worried about the Stone as Harry. The idea 
of Voldemort certainly scared them, but he didn't keep visiting them in 
dreams, and they were so busy with their studying they didn't have much 
time to fret about what Snape or anyone else might be up to. 

Their very last exam was History of Magic. One hour of answering 
questions about batty old wizards who'd invented selfstirring cauldrons 
and they'd be free, free for a whole wonderful week until their exam 
results came out. When the ghost of Professor Binns told them to put 
down their quills and roll up their parchment, Harry couldn't help 
cheering with the rest. 

"That was far easier than I thought it would be," said Hermione as they 
joined the crowds flocking out onto the sunny grounds. "I needn't have 
learned about the 1637 Werewolf Code of Conduct or the uprising of 
Elfric the Eager." 

Hermione always liked to go through their exam papers afterward, but Ron 
said this made him feel ill, so they wandered down to the lake and 
flopped under a tree. The Weasley twins and Lee Jordan were tickling the 
tentacles of a giant squid, which was basking in the warm shallows. "No 
more studying," Ron sighed happily, stretching out on the grass. "You 
could look more cheerful, Harry, we've got a week before we find out how 
badly we've done, there's no need to worry yet." 

Harry was rubbing his forehead. 

"I wish I knew what this means!" he burst out angrily. "My scar keeps 
hurting -- it's happened before, but never as often as this." 

"Go to Madam Pomfrey," Hermione suggested. 

"I'm not ill," said Harry. "I think it's a warning... it means danger's 
coming...." 

Ron couldn't get worked up, it was too hot. 

"Harry, relax, Hermione's right, the Stone's safe as long as 

210



Dumbledore's around. Anyway, we've never had any proof Snape found out 
how to get past Fluffy. He nearly had his leg ripped off once, he's not 
going to try it again in a hurry. And Neville will play Quidditch for 
England before Hagrid lets Dumbledore down." 

Harry nodded, but he couldn't shake off a lurking feeling that there was 
something he'd forgotten to do, something important. When he tried to 
explain this, Hermione said, "That's just the exams. I woke up last 
night and was halfway through my Transfiguration notes before I 
remembered we'd done that one." 

Harry was quite sure the unsettled feeling didn't have anything to do 
with work, though. He watched an owl flutter toward the school across 
the bright blue sky, a note clamped in its mouth. Hagrid was the only 
one who ever sent him letters. Hagrid would never betray Dumbledore. 
Hagrid would never tell anyone how to get past Fluffy... never... but -

Harry suddenly jumped to his feet. 

"Where're you going?" said Ron sleepily. 

"I've just thought of something," said Harry. He had turned white. 
"We've got to go and see Hagrid, now." 

"Why?" panted Hermione, hurrying to keep up. 

"Don't you think it's a bit odd," said Harry, scrambling up the grassy 
slope, "that what Hagrid wants more than anything else is a dragon, and 
a stranger turns up who just happens to have an egg in his pocket? How 
many people wander around with dragon eggs if it's against wizard law? 
Lucky they found Hagrid, don't you think? Why didn't I see it before?" 

"What are you talking about?" said Ron, but Harry, sprinting across the 
grounds toward the forest, didn't answer. 

Hagrid was sitting in an armchair outside his house; his trousers and 
sleeves were rolled up, and he was shelling peas into a large bowl. 

"Hullo," he said, smiling. "Finished yer exams? Got time fer a drink?" 

"Yes, please," said Ron, but Harry cut him off. 

"No, we're in a hurry. Hagrid, I've got to ask you something. You know 

211



that night you won Norbert? What did the stranger you were playing cards 
with look like?" 

"Dunno," said Hagrid casually, "he wouldn' take his cloak off." 

He saw the three of them look stunned and raised his eyebrows. 

"It's not that unusual, yeh get a lot o' funny folk in the Hog's Head -
that's the pub down in the village. Mighta bin a dragon dealer, mightn' 
he? I never saw his face, he kept his hood up." 

Harry sank down next to the bowl of peas. "What did you talk to him 
about, Hagrid? Did you mention Hogwarts at all?" 

"Mighta come up," said Hagrid, frowning as he tried to remember. 
"Yeah... he asked what I did, an' I told him I was gamekeeper here.... 
He asked a bit about the sorta creatures I took after... so I told 
him... an' I said what I'd always really wanted was a dragon... an' 
then... I can' remember too well, 'cause he kept buyin' me drinks.... 
Let's see... yeah, then he said he had the dragon egg an' we could play 
cards fer it if I wanted... but he had ter be sure I could handle it, he 
didn' want it ter go ter any old home.... So I told him, after Fluffy, a 
dragon would be easy..." 

"And did he -- did he seem interested in Fluffy?" Harry asked, try ing 
to keep his voice calm. 

"Well -- yeah -- how many three-headed dogs d'yeh meet, even around 
Hogwarts? So I told him, Fluffy's a piece o' cake if yeh know how to 
calm him down, jus' play him a bit o' music an' he'll go straight off 
ter sleep --" 

Hagrid suddenly looked horrified. 

"I shouldn'ta told yeh that!" he blurted out. "Forget I said it! Hey -
where're yeh goin'?" 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione didn't speak to each other at all until they 
came to a halt in the entrance hall, which seemed very cold and gloomy 
after the grounds. 

"We've got to go to Dumbledore," said Harry. "Hagrid told that stranger 
how to get past Fluffy, and it was either Snape or Voldemort under that 

212



cloak -- it must've been easy, once he'd got Hagrid drunk. I just hope 
Dumbledore believes us. Firenze might back us up if Bane doesn't stop 
him. Where's Dumbledore's office?" 

They looked around, as if hoping to see a sign pointing them in the 
right direction. They had never been told where Dumbledore lived, nor 
did they know anyone who had been sent to see him. 

"We'll just have to --" Harry began, but a voice suddenly rang across
the hall.
"What are you three doing inside?"


It was Professor McGonagall, carrying a large pile of books.
"We want to see Professor Dumbledore," said Hermione, rather bravely,
Harry and Ron thought.


"See Professor Dumbledore?" Professor McGonagall repeated, as though 
this was a very fishy thing to want to do. "Why?" 

Harry swallowed -- now what?
"It's sort of secret," he said, but he wished at once he hadn't, because
Professor McGonagall's nostrils flared.


"Professor Dumbledore left ten minutes ago," she said coldly. "He 
received an urgent owl from the Ministry of Magic and flew off for 
London at once." 

"He's gone?" said Harry frantically. "Now?" 

"Professor Dumbledore is a very great wizard, Potter, he has many
demands on his time -
"But this is important."
"Something you have to say is more important than the Ministry of Magic,


Potter.
"Look," said Harry, throwing caution to the winds, "Professor -- it's
about the Sorcerer's tone --"


213



Whatever Professor McGonagall had expected, it wasn't that. The books
she was carrying tumbled out of her arms, but she didn't pick them up.
"How do you know --?" she spluttered.


"Professor, I think -- I know -- that Sn- that someone's going to try
and steal the Stone. I've got to talk to Professor Dumbledore."


She eyed him with a mixture of shock and suspicion.
"Professor Dumbledore will be back tomorrow," she said finally. I don't
know how you found out about the Stone, but rest assured, no one can
possibly steal it, it's too well protected."


"But Professor --"
"Potter, I know what I'm talking about," she said shortly. She bent down


and gathered up the fallen books. I suggest you all go back outside and
enjoy the sunshine."
But they didn't.
"It's tonight," said Harry, once he was sure Professor McGonagall was


out of earshot. "Snape's going through the trapdoor tonight. He's found 
out everything he needs, and now he's got Dumbledore out of the way. He 
sent that note, I bet the Ministry of Magic will get a real shock when 
Dumbledore turns up." 

"But what can we --"
Hermione gasped. Harry and Ron wheeled round.
Snape was standing there.
"Good afternoon," he said smoothly.
They stared at him.
"You shouldn't be inside on a day like this," he said, with an odd,


twisted smile.
"We were --" Harry began, without any idea what he was going to say.
"You want to be more careful," said Snape. "Hanging around


214



like this, people will think you're up to something. And Gryffindor 
really can't afford to lose any more points, can it?" 

Harry flushed. They turned to go outside, but Snape called them back. 

"Be warned, Potter -- any more nighttime wanderings and I will 
personally make sure you are expelled. Good day to you." 

He strode off in the direction of the staffroom. 

Out on the stone steps, Harry turned to the others. 

"Right, here's what we've got to do," he whispered urgently. "One of us 
has got to keep an eye on Snape -- wait outside the staff room and 
follow him if he leaves it. Hermione, you'd better do that." 

"Why me?" 

"It's obvious," said Ron. "You can pretend to be waiting for Professor 
Flitwick, you know." He put on a high voice, "'Oh Professor Flitwick, 
I'm so worried, I think I got question fourteen b wrong....'" 

"Oh, shut up," said Hermione, but she agreed to go and watch out for 
Snape. 

"And we'd better stay outside the third-floor corridor," Harry told Ron. 
"Come on." 

But that part of the plan didn't work. No sooner had they reached the 
door separating Fluffy from the rest of the school than Professor 
McGonagall turned up again and this time, she lost her temper. 

"I suppose you think you're harder to get past than a pack of 
enchantments!" she stormed. "Enough of this nonsense! If I hear you 've 
come anywhere near here again, I'll take another fifty points from 
Gryffindor! Yes, Weasley, from my own house!" Harry and Ron went back to 
the common room, Harry had just said, "At least Hermione's on Snape's 
tail," when the portrait of the Fat Lady swung open and Hermione came 
in. 

"I'm sorry, Harry!" she wailed. "Snape came out and asked me what I was 
doing, so I said I was waiting for Flitwick, and Snape went to get him, 

215



and I've only just got away, I don't know where Snape went." 

"Well, that's it then, isn't it?" Harry said. 

The other two stared at him. He was pale and his eyes were glittering. 

"I'm going out of here tonight and I'm going to try and get to the Stone 
first." 

"You're mad!" said Ron. 

"You can't!" said Hermione. "After what McGonagall and Snape have said? 
You'll be expelled!" 

"SO WHAP" Harry shouted. "Don't you understand? If Snape gets hold of 
the Stone, Voldemort's coming back! Haven't you heard what it was like 
when he was trying to take over? There won't be any Hogwarts to get 
expelled from! He'll flatten it, or turn it into a school for the Dark 
Arts! Losing points doesn't matter anymore, can't you see? D'you think 
he'll leave you and your families alone if Gryffindor wins the house 
cup? If I get caught before I can get to the Stone, well, I'll have to 
go back to the Dursleys and wait for Voldemort to find me there, it's 
only dying a bit later than I would have, because I'm never going over 
to the Dark Side! I'm going through that trapdoor tonight and nothing 
you two say is going to stop me! Voldemort killed my parents, remember?" 

He glared at them. 

"You're right Harry," said Hermione in a small voice. 

"I'll use the invisibility cloak," said Harry. "It's just lucky I got it 
back." 

"But will it cover all three of us?" said Ron. 

"All -- all three of us?" 

"Oh, come off it, you don't think we'd let you go alone?" 

"Of course not," said Hermione briskly. "How do you think you'd get to 
the Stone without us? I'd better go and took through my books, there 
might be something useful..." 

216



"But if we get caught, you two will be expelled, too." 

"Not if I can help it," said Hermione grimly. "Flitwick told me in 
secret that I got a hundred and twelve percent on his exam. They're not 
throwing me out after that." 

After dinner the three of them sat nervously apart in the common room. 
Nobody bothered them; none of the Gryffindors had anything to say to 
Harry any more, after all. This was the first night he hadn't been upset 
by it. Hermione was skimming through all her notes, hoping to come 
across one of the enchantments they were about to try to break. Harry 
and Ron didn't talk much. Both of them were thinking about what they 
were about to do. 

Slowly, the room emptied as people drifted off to bed. 

"Better get the cloak," Ron muttered, as Lee Jordan finally left, 
stretching and yawning. Harry ran upstairs to their dark dormitory. He 
putted out the cloak and then his eyes fell on the flute Hagrid had 
given him for Christmas. He pocketed it to use on Fluffy -- he didn't 
feel much like singing. 

He ran back down to the common room. 

"We'd better put the cloak on here, and make sure it covers all three of 
us -- if Filch spots one of our feet wandering along on its own --" 

"What are you doing?" said a voice from the corner of the room. Neville 
appeared from behind an armchair, clutching Trevor the toad, who looked 
as though he'd been making another bid for freedom. 

"Nothing, Neville, nothing," said Harry, hurriedly putting the cloak 
behind his back. 

Neville stared at their guilty faces. 

"You're going out again," he said. 

"No, no, no," said Hermione. "No, we're not. Why don't you go to bed, 
Neville?" 

Harry looked at the grandfather clock by the door. They couldn't afford 
to waste any more time, Snape might even now be playing Fluffy to sleep. 

217



"You can't go out," said Neville, "you'll be caught again. Gryffindor
will be in even more trouble."
"You don't understand," said Harry, "this is important."


But Neville was clearly steeling himself to do something desperate.
I won't let you do it," he said, hurrying to stand in front of the
portrait hole. "I'll -- I'll fight you!"


"Neville, "Ron exploded, "get away from that hole and don't be an idiot


--"
"Don't you call me an idiot!" said Neville. I don't think you should be
breaking any more rules! And you were the one who told me to stand up to
people!"


"Yes, but not to us," said Ron in exasperation. "Neville, you don't know


what you're doing."
He took a step forward and Neville dropped Trevor the toad, who leapt
out of sight.


"Go on then, try and hit me!" said Neville, raising his fists. "I'm
ready!"
Harry turned to Hermione.
"Do something," he said desperately.
Hermione stepped forward.
"Neville," she said, "I'm really, really sorry about this."
She raised her wand.


"Petrificus Totalus!" she cried, pointing it at Neville.
Neville's arms snapped to his sides. His legs sprang together. His whole
body rigid, he swayed where he stood and then fell flat on his face,
stiff as a board.


218



Hermione ran to turn him over. Neville's jaws were jammed together so he 
couldn't speak. Only his eyes were moving, looking at them in horror. 

"What've you done to him?" Harry whispered. 

"It's the full Body-Bind," said Hermione miserably. "Oh, Neville, I'm so 
sorry." 

"We had to, Neville, no time to explain," said Harry. 

"You'll understand later, Neville," said Ron as they stepped over him 
and pulled on the invisibility cloak. 

But leaving Neville lying motionless on the floor didn't feel like a 
very good omen. In their nervous state, every statue's shadow looked 
like Filch, every distant breath of wind sounded like Peeves swooping 
down on them. At the foot of the first set of stairs, they spotted Mrs. 
Norris skulking near the top. 

"Oh, let's kick her, just this once," Ron whispered in Harry's ear, but 
Harry shook his head. As they climbed carefully around her, Mrs. Norris 
turned her lamplike eyes on them, but didn't do anything. 

They didn't meet anyone else until they reached the staircase up to the 
third floor. Peeves was bobbing halfway up, loosening the carpet so that 
people would trip. 

"Who's there?" he said suddenly as they climbed toward him. He narrowed 
his wicked black eyes. "Know you're there, even if I can't see you. Are 
you ghoulie or ghostie or wee student beastie?" 

He rose up in the air and floated there, squinting at them. 

"Should call Filch, I should, if something's a-creeping around unseen." 

Harry had a sudden idea. 

"Peeves," he said, in a hoarse whisper, "the Bloody Baron has his own 
reasons for being invisible." 

Peeves almost fell out of the air in shock. He caught himself in time 
and hovered about a foot off the stairs. 

219



"So sorry, your bloodiness, Mr. Baron, Sir," he said greasily. "My 
mistake, my mistake -- I didn't see you -- of course I didn't, you're 
invisible -- forgive old Peevsie his little joke, sir." 

"I have business here, Peeves," croaked Harry. "Stay away from this 

place tonight."
"I will, sir, I most certainly will," said Peeves, rising up in the air
again. "Hope your business goes well, Baron, I'll not bother you."


And he scooted off 
"Brilliant, Harry!" whispered Ron. 
A few seconds later, they were there, outside the third-floor corridor 

-- and the door was already ajar. 

"Well, there you are," Harry said quietly, "Snape's already got past
Fluffy."
Seeing the open door somehow seemed to impress upon all three of them


what was facing them. Underneath the cloak, Harry turned to the other


two.
"If you want to go back, I won't blame you," he said. "You can take the
cloak, I won't need it now."


"Don't be stupid," said Ron.
"We're coming," said Hermione.
Harry pushed the door open.
As the door creaked, low, rumbling growls met their ears. All three of


the dog's noses sniffed madly in their direction, even though it
couldn't see them.
"What's that at its feet?" Hermione whispered.


"Looks like a harp," said Ron. "Snape must have left it there."
"It must wake up the moment you stop playing," said Harry. "Well, here
goes..."


220



He put Hagrid's flute to his lips and blew. It wasn't really a tune, but 
from the first note the beast's eyes began to droop. Harry hardly drew 
breath. Slowly, the dog's growls ceased -- it tottered on its paws and 
fell to its knees, then it slumped to the ground, fast asleep. 

"Keep playing," Ron warned Harry as they slipped out of the cloak and 
crept toward the trapdoor. They could feel the dog's hot, smelly breath 
as they approached the giant heads. "I think we'll be able to pull the 
door open," said Ron, peering over the dog's back. "Want to go first, 
Hermione?" 

"No, I don't!" 

"All right." Ron gritted his teeth and stepped carefully over the dog's 
legs. He bent and pulled the ring of the trapdoor, which swung up and 
open. 

"What can you see?" Hermione said anxiously. 

"Nothing -- just black -- there's no way of climbing down, we'll just 
have to drop." 

Harry, who was still playing the flute, waved at Ron to get his 
attention and pointed at himself. 

"You want to go first? Are you sure?" said Ron. "I don't know how deep 
this thing goes. Give the flute to Hermione so she can keep him asleep." 

Harry handed the flute over. In the few seconds' silence, the dog 
growled and twitched, but the moment Hermione began to play, it fell 
back into its deep sleep. 

Harry climbed over it and looked down through the trapdoor. There was no 
sign of the bottom. 

He lowered himself through the hole until he was hanging on by his 
fingertips. Then he looked up at Ron and said, "If anything happens to 
me, don't follow. Go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to 
Dumbledore, right?" 

"Right," said Ron. 

221



"See you in a minute, I hope... 

And Harry let go. Cold, damp air rushed past him as he fell down, down, 
down and -- FLUMP. With a funny, muffled sort of thump he landed on 
something soft. He sat up and felt around, his eyes not used to the 
gloom. It felt as though he was sitting on some sort of plant. 

"It's okay!" he called up to the light the size of a postage stamp, 
which was the open trapdoor, "it's a soft landing, you can jump!" 

Ron followed right away. He landed, sprawled next to Harry. 

"What's this stuff?" were his first words. 

"Dunno, some sort of plant thing. I suppose it's here to break the fall. 
Come on, Hermione!" 

The distant music stopped. There was a loud bark from the dog, but 
Hermione had already jumped. She landed on Harry's other side. 

"We must be miles under the school , she said. 

"Lucky this plant thing's here, really," said Ron. 

"Lucky!" shrieked Hermione. "Look at you both!" 

She leapt up and struggled toward a damp wall. She had to struggle 
because the moment she had landed, the plant had started to twist 
snakelike tendrils around her ankles. As for Harry and Ron, their legs 
had already been bound tightly in long creepers without their noticing. 

Hermione had managed to free herself before the plant got a firm grip on 
her. Now she watched in horror as the two boys fought to pull the plant 
off them, but the more they strained against it, the tighter and faster 
the plant wound around them. 

"Stop moving!" Hermione ordered them. "I know what this is -- it's 
Devil's Snare!" 

"Oh, I'm so glad we know what it's called, that's a great help," snarled 
Ron, leaning back, trying to stop the plant from curling around his 
neck. "Shut up, I'm trying to remember how to kill it!" said Hermione. 

222



"Well, hurry up, I can't breathe!" Harry gasped, wrestling with it as it 
curled around his chest. 

"Devil's Snare, Devil's Snare... what did Professor Sprout say? -- it 
likes the dark and the damp 

"So light a fire!" Harry choked. 

"Yes -- of course -- but there's no wood!" Hermione cried, wringing her 
hands. 

"HAVE YOU GONE MAD?" Ron bellowed. "ARE YOU A WITCH OR NOT?" 

"Oh, right!" said Hermione, and she whipped out her wand, waved it, 
muttered something, and sent a jet of the same bluebell flames she had 
used on Snape at the plant. In a matter of seconds, the two boys felt it 
loosening its grip as it cringed away from the light and warmth. 
Wriggling and flailing, it unraveled itself from their bodies, and they 
were able to pull free. 

"Lucky you pay attention in Herbology, Hermione," said Harry as he 
joined her by the wall, wiping sweat off his face. 

"Yeah," said Ron, "and lucky Harry doesn't lose his head in a crisis -
'there's no wood,' honestly." 

"This way," said Harry, pointing down a stone passageway, which was the 
only way forward. 

All they could hear apart from their footsteps was the gentle drip of 
water trickling down the walls. The passageway sloped downward, and 
Harry was reminded of Gringotts. With an unpleasant jolt of the heart, 
he remembered the dragons said to be guarding vaults in the wizards' 
bank. If they met a dragon, a fully-grown dragon -- Norbert had been bad 
enough... 

"Can you hear something?" Ron whispered. 

Harry listened. A soft rustling and clinking seemed to be coming from up 
ahead. 

"Do you think it's a ghost?" 

223



"I don't know... sounds like wings to me." 

"There's light ahead -- I can see something moving." 

They reached the end of the passageway and saw before them a brilliantly 
lit chamber, its ceiling arching high above them. It was full of small, 
jewel-bright birds, fluttering and tumbling all around the room. On the 
opposite side of the chamber was a heavy wooden door. 

"Do you think they'll attack us if we cross the room?" said Ron. 

"Probably," said Harry. "They don't look very vicious, but I suppose if 
they all swooped down at once... well, there's no other choice... I'll 
run." 

He took a deep breath, covered his face with his arms, and sprinted 
across the room. He expected to feel sharp beaks and claws tearing at 
him any second, but nothing happened. He reached the door untouched. He 
pulled the handle, but it was locked. 

The other two followed him. They tugged and heaved at the door, but it 
wouldn't budge, not even when Hermione tried her Alohomora charm. 

"Now what?" said Ron. 

"These birds... they can't be here just for decoration," said Hermione. 

They watched the birds soaring overhead, glittering -- glittering? 

"They're not birds!" Harry said suddenly. "They're keys! Winged keys -
look carefully. So that must mean..." he looked around the chamber while 
the other two squinted up at the flock of keys. "... yes -- look! 
Broomsticks! We've got to catch the key to the door!" 

"But there are hundreds of them!" 

Ron examined the lock on the door. 

"We're looking for a big, old-fashioned one -- probably silver, like the 
handle." 

They each seized a broomstick and kicked off into the air, soaring into 
the midst of the cloud of keys. They grabbed and snatched, but the 

224



bewitched keys darted and dived so quickly it was almost impossible to 
catch one. 

Not for nothing, though, was Harry the youngest Seeker in a century. He 
had a knack for spotting things other people didn't. After a minute's 
weaving about through the whirl of rainbow feathers, he noticed a large 
silver key that had a bent wing, as if it had already been caught and 
stuffed roughly into the keyhole. 

"That one!" he called to the others. "That big one -- there -- no, there 
-- with bright blue wings -- the feathers are all crumpled on one side." 

Ron went speeding in the direction that Harry was pointing, crashed into 
the ceiling, and nearly fell off his broom. 

"We've got to close in on it!" Harry called, not taking his eyes off the 
key with the damaged wing. "Ron, you come at it from above -- Hermione, 
stay below and stop it from going down and I'll try and catch it. Right, 
NOW!" 

Ron dived, Hermione rocketed upward, the key dodged them both, and Harry 
streaked after it; it sped toward the wall, Harry leaned forward and 
with a nasty, crunching noise, pinned it against the stone with one 
hand. Ron and Hermione's cheers echoed around the high chamber. 

They landed quickly, and Harry ran to the door, the key struggling in 
his hand. He rammed it into the lock and turned -- it worked. The moment 
the lock had clicked open, the key took flight again, looking very 
battered now that it had been caught twice. 

"Ready?" Harry asked the other two, his hand on the door handle. They 
nodded. He pulled the door open. 

The next chamber was so dark they couldn't see anything at all. But as 
they stepped into it, light suddenly flooded the room to reveal an 
astonishing sight. 

They were standing on the edge of a huge chessboard, behind the black 
chessmen, which were all taller than they were and carved from what 
looked like black stone. Facing them, way across the chamber, were the 
white pieces. Harry, Ron and Hermione shivered slightly -- the towering 
white chessmen had no faces. 

225



"Now what do we do?" Harry whispered.


"It's obvious, isn't it?" said Ron. "We've got to play our way across
the room."
Behind the white pieces they could see another door.
"How?" said Hermione nervously.
"I think," said Ron, "we're going to have to be chessmen."
He walked up to a black knight and put his hand out to touch the


knight's horse. At once, the stone sprang to life. The horse pawed the


ground and the knight turned his helmeted head to look down at Ron.
"Do we -- er -- have to join you to get across?" The black knight
nodded. Ron turned to the other two.


"This needs thinking about he said. I suppose we've got to take the


place of three of the black pieces...."
Harry and Hermione stayed quiet, watching Ron think. Finally he said,
"Now, don't be offended or anything, but neither of you are that good at
chess --"


"We're not offended," said Harry quickly. "Just tell us what to do."


"Well, Harry, you take the place of that bishop, and Hermione, YOU 90
next to him instead of that castle."
"What about you?"
"I'm going to be a knight," said Ron.
The chessmen seemed to have been listening, because at these words a


knight, a bishop, and a castle turned their backs on the white pieces
and walked off the board, leaving three empty squares that Harry, Ron,
and Hermione took.


"White always plays first in chess," said Ron, peering across the board.
"Yes... look..."
A white pawn had moved forward two squares.


226



Ron started to direct the black pieces. They moved silently wherever he
sent them. Harry's knees were trembling. What if they lost?


"Harry -- move diagonally four squares to the right."
Their first real shock came when their other knight was taken. The white
queen smashed him to the floor and dragged him off the board, where he
lay quite still, facedown.


"Had to let that happen," said Ron, looking shaken. "Leaves you free to


take that bishop, Hermione, go on."
Every time one of their men was lost, the white pieces showed no mercy.
Soon there was a huddle of limp black players slumped along the wall.
Twice, Ron only just noticed in time that Harry and Hermione were in
danger. He himself darted around the board, taking almost as many white
pieces as they had lost black ones.


"We're nearly there," he muttered suddenly. "Let me think let me
think..."
The white queen turned her blank face toward him.
"Yes..." said Ron softly, "It's the only way... I've got to be taken."


"NOF Harry and Hermione shouted.
"That's chess!" snapped Ron. "You've got to make some sacrifices! I take
one step forward and she'll take me -- that leaves you free to checkmate
the king, Harry!"


"But --"
"Do you want to stop Snape or not?"
"Ron --"
"Look, if you don't hurry up, he'll already have the Stone!"
There was no alternative.
"Ready?" Ron called, his face pale but determined. "Here I go - now,


227



don't hang around once you've won." 

He stepped forward, and the white queen pounced. She struck Ron hard 
across the head with her stone arm, and he crashed to the floor -
Hermione screamed but stayed on her square - the white queen dragged Ron 
to one side. He looked as if he'd been knocked out. 

Shaking, Harry moved three spaces to the left. 

The white king took off his crown and threw it at Harry's feet. They had 
won. The chessmen parted and bowed, leaving the door ahead clear. With 
one last desperate look back at Ron, Harry and Hermione charged through 
the door and up the next passageway. 

"What if he's --?" 

"He'll be all right," said Harry, trying to convince himself. "What do 
you reckon's next?" 

"We've had Sprout's, that was the Devil's Snare; Flitwick must've put 
charms on the keys; McGonagall transfigured the chessmen to make them 
alive; that leaves Quirrell's spell, and Snape's." 

They had reached another door. 

"All right?" Harry whispered. 

"Go on." 

Harry pushed it open. 

A disgusting smell filled their nostrils, making both of them pull their 
robes up over their noses. Eyes watering, they saw, flat on the floor in 
front of them, a troll even larger than the one they had tackled, out 
cold with a bloody lump on its head. 

"I'm glad we didn't have to fight that one," Harry whispered as they 
stepped carefully over one of its massive legs. "Come on, I can't 
breathe." 

He pulled open the next door, both of them hardly daring to look at what 
came next - but there was nothing very frightening in here, just a table 
with seven differently shaped bottles standing on it in a line. 

228



"Snape's," said Harry. "What do we have to do?"
They stepped over the threshold, and immediately a fire sprang up behind
them in the doorway. It wasn't ordinary fire either; it was purple. At


the same instant, black flames shot up in the doorway leading onward.
They were trapped.
"Look!" Hermione seized a roll of paper lying next to the bottles. Harry


looked over her shoulder to read it:
Danger lies before you, while safety lies behind,
Two of us will help you, which ever you would find,
One among us seven will let you move ahead,
Another will transport the drinker back instead,
Two among our number hold only nettle wine,
Three of us are killers, waiting bidden in line.
Choose, unless you wish to stay here forevermore,
To help you in your choice, we give you these clues four:
First, however slyly the poison tries to hide
You will always find some on nettle wine's left side;
Second, different are those who stand at either end,
But if you would move onward, neither is your friend;
Third, as you see clearly, all are different size,
Neither dwarf nor giant holds death in their insides;
Fourth, the second left and the second on the right
Are twins once you taste them, though different at first sight.


229



Hermione let out a great sigh and Harry, amazed, saw that she was 
smiling, the very last thing he felt like doing. 

"Brilliant," said Hermione. "This isn't magic -- it's logic -- a puzzle. 
A lot of the greatest wizards haven't got an ounce of logic, they'd be 
stuck in here forever." 

"But so will we, won't we?" "Of course not," said Hermione. "Everything 
we need is here on this paper. Seven bottles: three are poison; two are 
wine; one will get us safely through the black fire, and one will get us 
back through the purple." 

"But how do we know which to drink?" 

"Give me a minute." 

Hermione read the paper several times. Then she walked up and down the 
line of bottles, muttering to herself and pointing at them. At last, she 
clapped her hands. 

"Got it," she said. "The smallest bottle will get us through the black 
fire -- toward the Stone." 

Harry looked at the tiny bottle. 

"There's only enough there for one of us," he said. "That's hardly one 
swallow." 

They looked at each other. 

"Which one will get you back through the purple flames?" 

Hermione pointed at a rounded bottle at the right end of the line. 

"You drink that," said Harry. "No, listen, get back and get Ron. Grab 
brooms from the flying- key room, they'll get you out of the trapdoor 
and past Fluffy -- go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to 
Dumbledore, we need him. I might be able to hold Snape off for a while, 
but I'm no match for him, really." 

"But Harry -- what if You-Know-Who's with him?" 

"Well -- I was lucky once, wasn't I?" said Harry, pointing at his scar. 

230



"I might get lucky again."


Hermione's lip trembled, and she suddenly dashed at Harry and threw her
arms around him.
"Hermione!"
"Harry -- you're a great wizard, you know."
"I'm not as good as you," said Harry, very embarrassed, as she let go of


him.


"Me!" said Hermione. "Books! And cleverness! There are more important
things -- friendship and bravery and -- oh Harry -- be careful!"
"You drink first," said Harry. "You are sure which is which, aren't


you?"


"Positive," said Hermione. She took a long drink from the round bottle
at the end, and shuddered.
"It's not poison?" said Harry anxiously.
"No -- but it's like ice."
"Quick, go, before it wears off."
"Good luck -- take care."
"GO!"
Hermione turned and walked straight through the purple fire.
Harry took a deep breath and picked up the smallest bottle. He turned to


face the black flames.
"Here I come," he said, and he drained the little bottle in one gulp.
It was indeed as though ice was flooding his body. He put the bottle


down and walked forward; he braced himself, saw the black flames licking 
his body, but couldn't feel them -- for a moment he could see nothing 
but dark fire -- then he was on the other side, in the last chamber. 

231



There was already someone there -- but it wasn't Snape. It wasn't even 
Voldemort. 

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN 

THE MAN WITH TWO FACES 

It was Quirrell. 

"You!" gasped Harry. 

Quirrell smiled. His face wasn't twitching at all. 

"Me," he said calmly. "I wondered whether I'd be meeting you here, 
Potter." 

"But I thought -- Snape --" 

"Severus?" Quirrell laughed, and it wasn't his usual quivering treble, 
either, but cold and sharp. "Yes, Severus does seem the type, doesn't 
he? So useful to have him swooping around like an overgrown bat. Next to 
him, who would suspect p-p-poor, st-stuttering P-Professor Quirrell?" 

Harry couldn't take it in. This couldn't be true, it couldn't. 

"But Snape tried to kill me!" 

"No, no, no. I tried to kill you. Your friend Miss Granger accidentally 
knocked me over as she rushed to set fire to Snape at that Quidditch 
match. She broke my eye contact with you. Another few seconds and I'd 
have got you off that broom. I'd have managed it before then if Snape 
hadn't been muttering a countercurse, trying to save you." 

"Snape was trying to save me?" 

"Of course," said Quirrell coolly. "\Why do you think he wanted to 
referee your next match? He was trying to make sure I didn't do it 
again. Funny, really... he needn't have bothered. I couldn't do anything 
with Dumbledore watching. All the other teachers thought Snape was 
trying to stop Gryffindor from winning, he did make himself unpopular... 
and what a waste of time, when after all that, I'm going to kill you 
tonight." 

232



Quirrell snapped his fingers. Ropes sprang out of thin air and wrapped 
themselves tightly around Harry. 

"You're too nosy to live, Potter. Scurrying around the school on 
Halloween like that, for all I knew you'd seen me coming to look at what 
was guarding the Stone." 

"You let the troll in?" 

"Certainly. I have a special gift with trolls -- you must have seen what 
I did to the one in the chamber back there? Unfortunately, while 
everyone else was running around looking for it, Snape, who already 
suspected me, went straight to the third floor to head me off -- and not 
only did my troll fail to beat you to death, that three-headed dog 
didn't even manage to bite Snape's leg off properly. 

"Now, wait quietly, Potter. I need to examine this interesting mirror. 

It was only then that Harry realized what was standing behind Quirrell. 
It was the Mirror of Erised. 

"This mirror is the key to finding the Stone," Quirrell murmured, 
tapping his way around the frame. "Trust Dumbledore to come up with 
something like this... but he's in London... I'll be far away by the 
time he gets back...." 

All Harry could think of doing was to keep Quirrell talking and stop him 
from concentrating on the mirror. 

"I saw you and Snape in the forest --" he blurted out. 

"Yes," said Quirrell idly, walking around the mirror to look at the 
back. "He was on to me by that time, trying to find out how far I'd got. 
He suspected me all along. Tried to frighten me - as though he could, 
when I had Lord Voldemort on my side...." 

Quirrell came back out from behind the mirror and stared hungrily into 
it. 

"I see the Stone... I'm presenting it to my master... but where is it?" 

Harry struggled against the ropes binding him, but they didn't give. He 

233



had to keep Quirrell from giving his whole attention to the mirror. 

"But Snape always seemed to hate me so much." 

"Oh, he does," said Quirrell casually, "heavens, yes. He was at Hogwarts 
with your father, didn't you know? They loathed each other. But he never 
wanted you dead." 

"But I heard you a few days ago, sobbing -- I thought Snape was 
threatening you...." 

For the first time, a spasm of fear flitted across Quirrell's face. 

"Sometimes," he said, "I find it hard to follow my master's instructions 
-- he is a great wizard and I am weak --" 

"You mean he was there in the classroom with you?" Harry gasped. 

"He is with me wherever I go," said Quirrell quietly. "I met him when I 
traveled around the world. A foolish young man I was then, full of 
ridiculous ideas about good and evil. Lord Voldemort showed me how wrong 
I was. There is no good and evil, there is only power, and those too 
weak to seek it.... Since then, I have served him faithfully, although I 
have let him down many times. He has had to be very hard on me." 
Quirrell shivered suddenly. "He does not forgive mistakes easily. When I 
failed to steal the stone from Gringotts, he was most displeased. He 
punished me... decided he would have to keep a closer watch on me...." 

Quirrell's voice trailed away. Harry was remembering his trip to Diagon 
Alley -how could he have been so stupid? He'd seen Quirrell there that 
very day, shaken hands with him in the Leaky Cauldron. 

Quirrell cursed under his breath. 

"I don't understand... is the Stone inside the mirror? Should I break 
it?" 

Harry's mind was racing. 

What I want more than anything else in the world at the moment, he 
thought, is to find the Stone before Quirrell does. So if I look in the 
mirror, I should see myseff finding it -- which means I'll see where 
it's hidden! But how can I look without Quirrell realizing what I'm up 

234



to? 

He tried to edge to the left, to get in front of the glass without 
Quirrell noticing, but the ropes around his ankles were too tight: he 
tripped and fell over. Quirrell ignored him. He was still talking to 
himself. "What does this mirror do? How does it work? Help me, Master!" 

And to Harry's horror, a voice answered, and the voice seemed to come 
from Quirrell himself 

"Use the boy... Use the boy..." 

Quirrell rounded on Harry. 

"Yes -- Potter -- come here." 

He clapped his hands once, and the ropes binding Harry fell off. Harry 
got slowly to his feet. 

"Come here," Quirrell repeated. "Look in the mirror and tell me what you 
see." 

Harry walked toward him. 

I must lie, he thought desperately. I must look and lie about what I 
see, that's all. 

Quirrell moved close behind him. Harry breathed in the funny smell that 
seemed to come from Quirrell's turban. He closed his eyes, stepped in 
front of the mirror, and opened them again. 

He saw his reflection, pale and scared-looking at first. But a moment 
later, the reflection smiled at him. It put its hand into its pocket and 
pulled out a blood-red stone. It winked and put the Stone back in its 
pocket -- and as it did so, Harry felt something heavy drop into his 
real pocket. Somehow -- incredibly -- he'd gotten the Stone. 

"Well?" said Quirrell impatiently. "What do you see?" 

Harry screwed up his courage. 

"I see myself shaking hands with Dumbledore," he invented. "I -- I've 
won the house cup for Gryffindor." 

235



Quirrell cursed again. 

"Get out of the way," he said. As Harry moved aside, he felt the 
Sorcerer's Stone against his leg. Dare he make a break for it? 

But he hadn't walked five paces before a high voice spoke, though 
Quirrell wasn't moving his lips. 

"He lies... He lies..." 

"Potter, come back here!" Quirrell shouted. "Tell me the truth! What did 
you just see?" 

The high voice spoke again. 

"Let me speak to him... face-to-face..." 

"Master, you are not strong enough!" 

"I have strength enough... for this...." 

Harry felt as if Devil's Snare was rooting him to the spot. He couldn't 
move a muscle. Petrified, he watched as Quirrell reached up and began to 
unwrap his turban. What was going on? The turban fell away. Quirrell's 
head looked strangely small without it. Then he turned slowly on the 
spot. 

Harry would have screamed, but he couldn't make a sound. Where there 
should have been a back to Quirrell's head, there was a face, the most 
terrible face Harry had ever seen. It was chalk white with glaring red 
eyes and slits for nostrils, like a snake. 

"Harry Potter..." it whispered. 

Harry tried to take a step backward but his legs wouldn't move. 

"See what I have become?" the face said. "Mere shadow and vapor ... I 
have form only when I can share another's body... but there have always 
been those willing to let me into their hearts and minds.... Unicorn 
blood has strengthened me, these past weeks... you saw faithful Quirrell 
drinking it for me in the forest... and once I have the Elixir of Life, 
I will be able to create a body of my own.... Now... why don't you give 

236



me that Stone in your pocket?" 

So he knew. The feeling suddenly surged back into Harry's legs. He 
stumbled backward. 

"Don't be a fool," snarled the face. "Better save your own life and join 
me... or you'll meet the same end as your parents.... They died begging 
me for mercy..." 

"LIAR!" Harry shouted suddenly. 

Quirrell was walking backward at him, so that Voldemort could still see 
him. The evil face was now smiling. 

"How touching..." it hissed. "I always value bravery... Yes, boy, your 
parents were brave.... I killed your father first; and he put up a 
courageous fight... but your mother needn't have died... she was trying 
to protect you.... Now give me the Stone, unless you want her to have 
died in vain." 

"NEVER!" 

Harry sprang toward the flame door, but Voldemort screamed "SEIZE HIM!" 
and the next second, Harry felt Quirrell's hand close on his wrist. At 
once, a needle-sharp pain seared across Harry's scar; his head felt as 
though it was about to split in two; he yelled, struggling with all his 
might, and to his surprise, Quirrell let go of him. The pain in his head 
lessened -- he looked around wildly to see where Quirrell had gone, and 
saw him hunched in pain, looking at his fingers -- they were blistering 
before his eyes. 

"Seize him! SEIZE HIM!" shrieked Voldemort again, and Quirrell lunged, 
knocking Harry clean off his feet' landing on top of him, both hands 
around Harry's neck -- Harry's scar was almost blinding him with pain, 
yet he could see Quirrell howling in agony. 

"Master, I cannot hold him -- my hands -- my hands!" 

And Quirrell, though pinning Harry to the ground with his knees, let go 
of his neck and stared, bewildered, at his own palms -- Harry could see 
they looked burned, raw, red, and shiny. 

"Then kill him, fool, and be done!" screeched Voldemort. 

237



Quirrell raised his hand to perform a deadly curse, but Harry, by 
instinct, reached up and grabbed Quirrell's face -

"AAAARGH!" 

Quirrell rolled off him, his face blistering, too, and then Harry knew: 
Quirrell couldn't touch his bare skin, not without suffering terrible 
pain -- his only chance was to keep hold of Quirrell, keep him in enough 
pain to stop him from doing a curse. 

Harry jumped to his feet, caught Quirrell by the arm, and hung on as 
tight as he could. Quirrell screamed and tried to throw Harry off -- the 
pain in Harry's head was building -- he couldn't see -- he could only 
hear Quirrell's terrible shrieks and Voldemort's yells of, "KILL HIM! 
KILL HIM!" and other voices, maybe in Harry's own head, crying, "Harry! 
Harry!" 

He felt Quirrell's arm wrenched from his grasp, knew all was lost, and 
fell into blackness, down ... down... down... 

Something gold was glinting just above him. The Snitch! He tried to 
catch it, but his arms were too heavy. 

He blinked. It wasn't the Snitch at all. It was a pair of glasses. How 
strange. 

He blinked again. The smiling face of Albus Dumbledore swam into view 
above him. 

"Good afternoon, Harry," said Dumbledore. Harry stared at him. Then he 
remembered: "Sir! The Stone! It was Quirrell! He's got the Stone! Sir, 
quick --" 

"Calm yourself, dear boy, you are a little behind the times," said 
Dumbledore. "Quirrell does not have the Stone." 

"Then who does? Sir, I --" 

"Harry, please relax, or Madam Pomfrey will have me thrown out. 

Harry swallowed and looked around him. He realized he must be in the 
hospital wing. He was lying in a bed with white linen sheets, and next 

238



to him was a table piled high with what looked like half the candy shop. 

"Tokens from your friends and admirers," said Dumbledore, beaming. "What 
happened down in the dungeons between you and Professor Quirrell is a 
complete secret, so, naturally, the whole school knows. I believe your 
friends Misters Fred and George Weasley were responsible for trying to 
send you a toilet seat. No doubt they thought it would amuse you. Madam 
Pomfrey, however, felt it might not be very hygienic, and confiscated 
it." 

"How long have I been in here?" 

"Three days. Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss Granger will be most relieved 
you have come round, they have been extremely worried." 

"But sit, the Stone 

I see you are not to be distracted. Very well, the Stone. Professor 
Quirrell did not manage to take it from you. I arrived in time to 
prevent that, although you were doing very well on your own, I must say. 

"You got there? You got Hermione's owl?" 

"We must have crossed in midair. No sooner had I reached London than it 
became clear to me that the place I should be was the one I had just 
left. I arrived just in time to pull Quirrell off you." 

"It was you." 

"I feared I might be too late." 

"You nearly were, I couldn't have kept him off the Stone much longer --" 

"Not the Stone, boy, you -- the effort involved nearly killed you. For 
one terrible moment there, I was afraid it had. As for the Stone, it has 
been destroyed." 

"Destroyed?" said Harry blankly. "But your friend -- Nicolas Flamel --" 

"Oh, you know about Nicolas?" said Dumbledore, sounding quite delighted. 
"You did do the thing properly, didn't you? Well, Nicolas and I have had 
a little chat, and agreed it's all for the best." 

239



"But that means he and his wife will die, won't they?" 

"They have enough Elixir stored to set their affairs in order and then, 
yes, they will die." 

Dumbledore smiled at the look of amazement on Harry's face. 

"To one as young as you, I'm sure it seems incredible, but to Nicolas 
and Perenelle, it really is like going to bed after a very, very long 
day. After all, to the well-organized mind, death is but the next great 
adventure. You know, the Stone was really not such a wonderful thing. As 
much money and life as you could want! The two things most human beings 
would choose above all -- the trouble is, humans do have a knack of 
choosing precisely those things that are worst for them." Harry lay 
there, lost for words. Dumbledore hummed a little and smiled at the 
ceiling. 

"Sir?" said Harry. "I've been thinking... sir -- even if the Stone's 
gone, Vol-, I mean, You-Know- Who --" 

"Call him Voldemort, Harry. Always use the proper name for things. Fear 
of a name increases fear of the thing itself." 

"Yes, sir. Well, Voldemort's going to try other ways of coming back, 
isn't he? I mean, he hasn't gone, has he?" 

"No, Harry, he has not. He is still out there somewhere, perhaps looking 
for another body to share... not being truly alive, he cannot be killed. 
He left Quirrell to die; he shows just as little mercy to his followers 
as his enemies. Nevertheless, Harry, while you may only have delayed his 
return to power, it will merely take someone else who is prepared to 
fight what seems a losing battle next time -- and if he is delayed 
again, and again, why, he may never return to power." 

Harry nodded, but stopped quickly, because it made his head hurt. Then 
he said, "Sir, there are some other things I'd like to know, if you can 
tell me... things I want to know the truth about...." 

"The truth." Dumbledore sighed. "It is a beautiful and terrible thing, 
and should therefore be treated with great caution. However, I shall 
answer your questions unless I have a very good reason not to, in which 
case I beg you'll forgive me. I shall not, of course, lie." 

240



"Well... Voldemort said that he only killed my mother because she tried 
to stop him from killing me. But why would he want to kill me in the 
first place?" 

Dumbledore sighed very deeply this time. 

"Alas, the first thing you ask me, I cannot tell you. Not today. Not 
now. You will know, one day... put it from your mind for now, Harry. 
When you are older... I know you hate to hear this... when you are 
ready, you will know." 

And Harry knew it would be no good to argue. 

"But why couldn't Quirrell touch me?" 

"Your mother died to save you. If there is one thing Voldemort cannot 
understand, it is love. He didn't realize that love as powerful as your 
mother's for you leaves its own mark. Not a scar, no visible sign... to 
have been loved so deeply, even though the person who loved us is gone, 
will give us some protection forever. It is in your very skin. Quirrell, 
full of hatred, greed, and ambition, sharing his soul with Voldemort, 
could not touch you for this reason. It was agony to touch a person 
marked by something so good." 

Dumbledore now became very interested in a bird out on the windowsill, 
which gave Harry time to dry his eyes on the sheet. When he had found 
his voice again, Harry said, "And the invisibility cloak - do you know 
who sent it to me?" 

"Ah - your father happened to leave it in my possession, and I thought 
you might like it." Dumbledore's eyes twinkled. "Useful things... your 
father used it mainly for sneaking off to the kitchens to steal food 
when he was here." 

"And there's something else..." 

"Fire away." 

"Quirrell said Snape --" 

"Professor Snape, Harry." "Yes, him -- Quirrell said he hates me because 
he hated my father. Is that true?" 

241



"Well, they did rather detest each other. Not unlike yourself and Mr. 
Malfoy. And then, your father did something Snape could never forgive." 

"What?" 

"He saved his life." 

"What?" 

"Yes..." said Dumbledore dreamily. "Funny, the way people's minds work, 
isn't it? Professor Snape couldn't bear being in your father's debt.... 
I do believe he worked so hard to protect you this year because he felt 
that would make him and your father even. Then he could go back to 
hating your father's memory in peace...." 

Harry tried to understand this but it made his head pound, so he 
stopped. 

"And sir, there's one more thing..." 

"Just the one?" 

"How did I get the Stone out of the mirror?" 

"Ah, now, I'm glad you asked me that. It was one of my more brilliant 
ideas, and between you and me, that's saying something. You see, only 
one who wanted to find the Stone -- find it, but not use it -- would be 
able to get it, otherwise they'd just see themselves making gold or 
drinking Elixir of Life. My brain surprises even me sometimes.... Now, 
enough questions. I suggest you make a start on these sweets. Ah! Bettie 
Bott's Every Flavor Beans! I was unfortunate enough in my youth to come 
across a vomitflavored one, and since then I'm afraid I've rather lost 
my liking for them -- but I think I'll be safe with a nice toffee, don't 
you?" 

He smiled and popped the golden-brown bean into his mouth. Then he 
choked and said, "Alas! Ear wax!" 

Madam Pomfrey, the nurse, was a nice woman, but very strict. 

"Just five minutes," Harry pleaded. 

"Absolutely not." 

242



"You let Professor Dumbledore in..." 

"Well, of course, that was the headmaster, quite different. You need 
rest." 
"I am resting, look, lying down and everything. Oh, go on, Madam 

Pomfrey..."
"Oh, very well," she said. "But five minutes only."
And she let Ron and Hermione in.
"Harry!"
Hermione looked ready to fling her arms around him again, but Harry was


glad she held herself in as his head was still very sore.


"Oh, Harry, we were sure you were going to -- Dumbledore was so worried
--"
"The whole school's talking about it," said Ron. "What really happened?"
It was one of those rare occasions when the true story is even more


strange and exciting than the wild rumors. Harry told them everything: 
Quirrell; the mirror; the Stone; and Voldemort. Ron and Hermione were a 
very good audience; they gasped in all the right places, and when Harry 
told them what was under Quirrell's turban, Hermione screamed out loud. 

"So the Stone's gone?" said Ron finally. "Flamel's just going to die?" 

"That's what I said, but Dumbledore thinks that -- what was it? -- 'to 
the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure. 
"I always said he was off his rocker," said Ron, looking quite impressed 

at how crazy his hero was.
"So what happened to you two?" said Harry.
"Well, I got back all right," said Hermione. "I brought Ron round -


that took a while -- and we were dashing up to the owlery to contact 
Dumbledore when we met him in the entrance hall -- he already knew -- he 
just said, 'Harry's gone after him, hasn't he?' and hurtled off to the 

243



third floor." 

"D'you think he meant you to do it?" said Ron. "Sending you your 
father's cloak and everything?" 

"Well, " Hermione exploded, "if he did -- I mean to say that's terrible 
-- you could have been killed." 

"No, it isn't," said Harry thoughtfully. "He's a funny man, Dumbledore. 
I think he sort of wanted to give me a chance. I think he knows more or 
less everything that goes on here, you know. I reckon he had a pretty 
good idea we were going to try, and instead of stopping us, he just 
taught us enough to help. I don't think it was an accident he let me 
find out how the mirror worked. It's almost like he thought I had the 
right to face Voldemort if I could...." 

"Yeah, Dumbledore's off his rocker, all right," said Ron proudly. 
"Listen, you've got to be up for the end-of-year feast tomorrow. The 
points are all in and Slytherin won, of course -- you missed the last 
Quidditch match, we were steamrollered by Ravenclaw without you -- but 
the food'll be good." 

At that moment, Madam Pomfrey bustled over. 

"You've had nearly fifteen minutes, now OUT" she said firmly. 

After a good night's sleep, Harry felt nearly back to normal. 

I want to go to the feast," he told Madam Pomfrey as she straightened 
his many candy boxes. I can, can't I?" 

"Professor Dumbledore says you are to be allowed to go," she said 
stiffily, as though in her opinion Professor Dumbledore didn't realize 
how risky feasts could be. "And you have another visitor." 

"Oh, good," said Harry. "Who is it?" 

Hagrid sidled through the door as he spoke. As usual when he was 
indoors, Hagrid looked too big to be allowed. He sat down next to Harry, 
took one look at him, and burst into tears. 

"It's -- all -- my -- ruddy -- fault!" he sobbed, his face in his hands. 
I told the evil git how ter get past Fluffy! I told him! It was the only 

244



thing he didn't know, an' I told him! Yeh could've died! All fer a 
dragon egg! I'll never drink again! I should be chucked out an' made ter 
live as a Muggle!" 

"Hagrid!" said Harry, shocked to see Hagrid shaking with grief and 
remorse, great tears leaking down into his beard. "Hagrid, he'd have 
found out somehow, this is Voldemort we're talking about, he'd have 
found out even if you hadn't told him." 

"Yeh could've died!" sobbed Hagrid. "An' don' say the name!" 

"VOLDEMORT!" Harry bellowed, and Hagrid was so shocked, he stopped 
crying. "I've met him and I'm calling him by his name. Please cheer up, 
Hagrid, we saved the Stone, it's gone, he can't use it. Have a Chocolate 
Frog, I've got loads...." 

Hagrid wiped his nose on the back of his hand and said, "That reminds 
me. I've got yeh a present." 

"It's not a stoat sandwich, is it?" said Harry anxiously, and at last 
Hagrid gave a weak chuckle. "Nah. Dumbledore gave me the day off 
yesterday ter fix it. 'Course, he shoulda sacked me instead -- anyway, 
got yeh this..." 

It seemed to be a handsome, leather-covered book. Harry opened it 
curiously. It was full of wizard photographs. Smiling and waving at him 
from every page were his mother and father. 

"Sent owls off ter all yer parents' old school friends, askin' fer 
photos... knew yeh didn' have any... d'yeh like it?" 

Harry couldn't speak, but Hagrid understood. 

Harry made his way down to the end-of-year feast alone that night. He 
had been held up by Madam Pomfrey's fussing about, insisting on giving 
him one last checkup, so the Great Hall was already full. It was decked 
out in the Slytherin colors of green and silver to celebrate Slytherin's 
winning the house cup for the seventh year in a row. A huge banner 
showing the Slytherin serpent covered the wall behind the High Table. 

When Harry walked in there was a sudden hush, and then everybody started 
talking loudly at once. He slipped into a seat between Ron and Hermione 
at the Gryffindor table and tried to ignore the fact that people were 

245



standing up to look at him. 

Fortunately, Dumbledore arrived moments later. The babble died away. 

"Another year gone!" Dumbledore said cheerfully. "And I must trouble you 
with an old man's wheezing waffle before we sink our teeth into our 
delicious feast. What a year it has been! Hopefully your heads are all a 
little fuller than they were... you have the whole summer ahead to get 
them nice and empty before next year starts.... 

"Now, as I understand it, the house cup here needs awarding, and the 
points stand thus: In fourth place, Gryffindor, with three hundred and 
twelve points; in third, Hufflepuff, with three hundred and fifty-two; 
Ravenclaw has four hundred and twenty-six and Slytherin, four hundred 
and seventy- two." 

A storm of cheering and stamping broke out from the Slytherin table. 
Harry could see Draco Malfoy banging his goblet on the table. It was a 
sickening sight. 

"Yes, Yes, well done, Slytherin," said Dumbledore. "However, recent 
events must be taken into account." 

The room went very still. The Slytherins' smiles faded a little. 

"Ahem," said Dumbledore. "I have a few last-minute points to dish out. 
Let me see. Yes... 

"First -- to Mr. Ronald Weasley..." 

Ron went purple in the face; he looked like a radish with a bad sunburn. 

"...for the best-played game of chess Hogwarts has seen in many years, I 
award Gryffindor house fifty points." 

Gryffindor cheers nearly raised the bewitched ceiling; the stars 
overhead seemed to quiver. Percy could be heard telling the other 
prefects, "My brother, you know! My youngest brother! Got past 
McGonagall's giant chess set!" 

At last there was silence again. 

"Second -- to Miss Hermione Granger... for the use of cool logic in the 

246



face of fire, I award Gryffindor house fifty points." 

Hermione buried her face in her arms; Harry strongly suspected she had 
burst into tears. Gryffindors up and down the table were beside 
themselves -- they were a hundred points up. "Third -- to Mr. Harry 
Potter..." said Dumbledore. The room went deadly quiet for pure nerve 
and outstanding courage, I award Gryffindor house sixty points." 

The din was deafening. Those who could add up while yelling themselves 
hoarse knew that Gryffindor now had four hundred and seventy-two points 
-- exactly the same as Slytherin. They had tied for the house cup -- if 
only Dumbledore had given Harry just one more point. 

Dumbledore raised his hand. The room gradually fell silent. 

"There are all kinds of courage," said Dumbledore, smiling. "It takes a 
great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to 
stand up to our friends. I therefore award ten points to Mr. Neville 
Longbottom." 

Someone standing outside the Great Hall might well have thought some 
sort of explosion had taken place, so loud was the noise that erupted 
from the Gryffindor table. Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood up to yell and 
cheer as Neville, white with shock, disappeared under a pile of people 
hugging him. He had never won so much as a point for Gryffindor before. 
Harry, still cheering, nudged Ron in the ribs and pointed at Malfoy, who 
couldn't have looked more stunned and horrified if he'd just had the 
Body-Bind Curse put on him. 

"Which means, Dumbledore called over the storm of applause, for even 
Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff were celebrating the downfall of Slytherin, "we 
need a little change of decoration." 

He clapped his hands. In an instant, the green hangings became scarlet 
and the silver became gold; the huge Slytherin serpent vanished and a 
towering Gryffindor lion took its place. Snape was shaking Professor 
McGonagall's hand, with a horrible, forced smile. He caught Harry's eye 
and Harry knew at once that Snape's feelings toward him hadn't changed 
one jot. This didn't worry Harry. It seemed as though life would be back 
to normal next year, or as normal as it ever was at Hogwarts. 

It was the best evening of Harry's life, better than winning at 
Quidditch, or Christmas, or knocking out mountain trolls... he would 

247



never, ever forget tonight. 

Harry had almost forgotten that the exam results were still to come, but 
come they did. To their great surprise, both he and Ron passed with good 
marks; Hermione, of course, had the best grades of the first years. Even 
Neville scraped through, his good Herbology mark making up for his 
abysmal Potions one. They had hoped that Goyle, who was almost as stupid 
as he was mean, might be thrown out, but he had passed, too. It was a 
shame, but as Ron said, you couldn't have everything in life. 

And suddenly, their wardrobes were empty, their trunks were packed, 
Neville's toad was found lurking in a corner of the toilets; notes were 
handed out to all students, warning them not to use magic over the 
holidays ("I always hope they'll forget to give us these," said Fred 
Weasley sadly); Hagrid was there to take them down to the fleet of boats 
that sailed across the lake; they were boarding the Hogwarts Express; 
talking and laughing as the countryside became greener and tidier; 
eating Bettie Bott's Every Flavor Beans as they sped past Muggle towns; 
pulling off their wizard robes and putting on jackets and coats; pulling 
into platform nine and three-quarters at King's Cross Station. 

It took quite a while for them all to get off the platform. A wizened 
old guard was up by the ticket barrier, letting them go through the gate 
in twos and threes so they didn't attract attention by all bursting out 
of a solid wall at once and alarming the Muggles. 

"You must come and stay this summer," said Ron, "both of you -- I'll 
send you an owl." 

"Thanks," said Harry, "I'll need something to look forward to." People 
jostled them as they moved forward toward the gateway back to the Muggle 
world. Some of them called: 

"Bye, Harry!" 

"See you, Potter!" 

"Still famous," said Ron, grinning at him. 

"Not where I'm going, I promise you," said Harry. 

He, Ron, and Hermione passed through the gateway together. "There he is, 
Mom, there he is, look!" 

248



It was Ginny Weasley, Ron's younger sister, but she wasn't pointing at
Ron.
"Harry Potter!" she squealed. "Look, Mom! I can see
"Be quiet, Ginny, and it's rude to point."
Mrs. Weasley smiled down at them.


"Busy year?" she said.
"Very," said Harry. "Thanks for the fudge and the sweater, Mrs.
Weasley."


"Oh, it was nothing, dear."
"Ready, are you?"
It was Uncle Vernon, still purple-faced, still mustached, still looking


furious at the nerve of Harry, carrying an owl in a cage in a station 
full of ordinary people. Behind him stood Aunt Petunia and Dudley, 
looking terrified at the very sight of Harry. 

"You must be Harry's family!" said Mrs. Weasley. 

"In a manner of speaking," said Uncle Vernon. "Hurry up, boy, we haven't
got all day." He walked away.
Harry hung back for a last word with Ron and Hermione.
"See you over the summer, then."
"Hope you have -- er -- a good holiday," said Hermione, looking


uncertainly after Uncle Vernon, shocked that anyone could be so


unpleasant.
"Oh, I will," said Harry, and they were surprised at the grin that was
spreading over his face. "They don't know we're not allowed to use magic
at home. I'm going to have a lot of fun with Dudley this summer...."


THE END


249 
()  Criag Philpot 2001.07.11 18:08:15 -05'00' o



